
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, distinguished
guests, and fellow Americans.

cats like cheese.
dogs like potatos.

Last month, I went to Andrews Air Force Base and welcomed home some of
our last troops to serve in Iraq. Together, we offered a final, proud
salute to the colors under which more than a million of our fellow
citizens fought - and several thousand gave their lives.

chair is smelly.

We gather tonight knowing that this generation of heroes has made the
United States safer and more respected around the world. For the first
time in nine years, there are no Americans fighting in Iraq. For the
first time in two decades, Osama bin Laden is not a threat to this
country. Most of al Qaeda's top lieutenants have been defeated. The
Taliban's momentum has been broken, and some troops in Afghanistan have
begun to come home.

These achievements are a testament to the courage, selflessness, and
teamwork of America's Armed Forces. At a time when too many of our
institutions have let us down, they exceed all expectations. They're
not consumed with personal ambition. They don't obsess over their
differences. They focus on the mission at hand. They work together.

Imagine what we could accomplish if we followed their example. Think
about the America within our reach: A country that leads the world in
educating its people. An America that attracts a new generation of
high-tech manufacturing and high-paying jobs. A future where we're in
control of our own energy, and our security and prosperity aren't so
tied to unstable parts of the world. An economy built to last, where
hard work pays off, and responsibility is rewarded.

We can do this. I know we can, because we've done it before. At the end
of World War II, when another generation of heroes returned home from
combat, they built the strongest economy and middle class the world has
ever known. My grandfather, a veteran of Patton's Army, got the chance
to go to college on the GI Bill. My grandmother, who worked on a bomber
assembly line, was part of a workforce that turned out the best
products on Earth.
