The 9.12 Project is a nonpartisan movement made up of millions of patriotic citizens like you and I, tired of sitting on the sidelines while our Country is being lead in the wrong direction. We gather locally in homes, restaurants, churches and public halls, in numbers from two to hundreds at a time, all of us bonded by our common belief in 9 core principles and 12 values. We come together in the American spirit we all instinctively felt on 9.12.2001. On that day we flew our flags, we hugged our families, friends and neighbors and we did what needed to be done. As 9.12er's today, we carry on that legacy. We fly our flags. We work to unite and educate our families, friends and neighbors and do what we all know in our hearts still needs to be done. We are deeply concerned for the future of our great Republic and are working to preserve it for the future generations of Americans. If you believe as we do, that our government is out of control, and it needs to be brought back to its founding principles; if you believe that natural law, the rule of law and our founding documents are the foundation of our civil society and they are all being eroded away; if you believe our government's power comes from “We the People” and it is time we take the power back, then it is time for you to join us! Check out your local 9.12 group today. If you don’t have a local group, or if you have your own strong sense of purpose and vision for how you would like to help us bring about the change we seek, start your own 9.12 group! Remember, they do not surround us, WE SURROUND THEM! Our goals are: to Unite people under the banner of liberty, to Educate ourselves and others, and to Act so we can affect the outcome of our own lives and pass on a better nation, founded in liberty, to future generations.12 Values * Honesty * Moderation * Reverence * Hard Work * Hope * Courage * Thrift * Personal Responsibility * Humility * Gratitude * Charity * Sincerity 9 Principles 1. America Is Good. 2. I believe in God, and He is the Center of my Life. 3. I must always try to be a more honest person than I was yesterday. 4. The family is sacred. My spouse and I are the ultimate authority, not the government. 5. If you break the law, you pay the penalty. Justice is blind, and no one is above it. 6. I have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, but there is no guarantee of equal results 7. I work hard for what I have, and I will share it with who I want to. Government cannot force me to be charitable. 8. It is not un-American for me to disagree with authority or to share my personal opinion. 9. The government works for me. I do not answer to them; they answer to me.