COURAGE TO STAND UP FOR GERMANY WE ARE NOT SUBJECTS, BUT FREE CITIZENS We are liberals and conservatives. We are free citizens of our nation. We are staunch supporters of democracy. We have come together as citizens with different background, experience, qualifications and political careers. In spite of our differences, we believe in a common vision, and that the time to stand up and act has arrived. We share a firm conviction that citizens have the right to true political alternatives, not only those presented by the political class. No longer can we remain idle and observe the breaches to justice and the rule of law, the destruction of the constitutional state, and irresponsible political actions which clash with sound economic principles. Similarly, we are no longer willing to accept the enforcement of the so-called Euro rescue package, which has rekindled long-forgotten prejudices and hostilities between the peoples of Europe. Therefore, we have decided to offer Germany and all its citizens a true political alternative, which covers all aspects of life. As free citizens we believe in direct democracy, the separation of powers, the rule of law, social market economics, subsidiarity, federalism, family values, and German cultural heritage, as democracy and freedom are vested in our 5 Preamble common cultural values and historical tradition. The recollection of the two revolutions of 1848 and 1989 drive our civil protest and the determination to complete our national unity in freedom, and create a Europe of sovereign and democratic nation states, united in peace, self-determination and good-neighbourliness. We commit ourselves with all our energy to restoring these principles, and fundamentally reform our country in the spirit of freedom and democracy. We maintain an open mind towards other nations and cultures, but wish to be and remain German at heart. Therefore, we shall continuously strive to uphold human dignity, support families with children, retain our western Christian culture, and maintain our language and traditions in a peaceful, democratic, and sovereign nation state for the German people. We will have reached our goal when government and all its institutions once again become servants to all citizens in our country, which all members of government swear in the official oath to the constitution: „I swear that I will dedicate my efforts to the well-being of the German people, promote their welfare, protect them from harm, uphold and defend the German Constitution and the laws of the Federation, perform my duties conscientiously and do justice to all.“DEMOCRACY AND CORE VALUES We want to reform Germany and return to the roots and principles which were fundamental to its economic recovery and subsequent decades of economic and social progress. Germany‘s government institutions have developed a disquieting independent existence. The distribution of powers no longer corresponds to the fundamental laws of separation of powers. Further, the public sector has expanded beyond appropriate boundaries. Therefore, it is an important part of our platform to revert government institutions to their original goals and responsibilities. At the latest since the Schengen (1985), Maastricht (1992) and Lisbon (2007) Treaties, the inviolability of national sovereignty as the foundation of our state has been exposed as a fiction. 7 Democracy and Core Values Behind the scenes a small and powerful elite within the political parties is secretly in charge, and is responsible for the misguided development of past decades. It is this political class of career politicians whose foremost interest is to retain their own power base, status, and material well-being. It is a political cartel which operates the levers of government power, insofar as these have not been transferred to the EU. Only the citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany can end this illegitimate state of affairs.1.1 Referenda based on the Swiss Model The AfD advocates the introduction of referenda in Germany based on the Swiss model. The German people should have the right to vote on laws made by Parliament. From the outset this would have a limiting and moderating effect on Parliament, and over time would stem the flood of nonsensical legislation. Further, the content of regulations would be more carefully considered in order to secure a popular vote. Changes to parliamentary allowances and expenditure would be limited in order to gain approval by the electorate. Over and above, the electorate itself could initiate new draft laws. The Constitution may not be changed, and no significant international treaty be entered into, without the direct approval of the German people. Vice versa, the people themselves should have the right to initiate changes to the Constitution. In particular, the relinquishing of national sovereignty to the EU and other institutions would be scotched without prior approval by the German people. The German electorate is just as qualified as their Swiss counterparts to vote directly and without curtailment on any topic. A natural limitation is constituted by principles of international law. The Swiss model proves that citizens take a greater interest in public welfare than professional politicians, even when their own interests collide with the common good. Decisions based on political majorities and those favouring special interest groups are more likely to be found in representative democracies. In particular, decisions of a financial nature should be put to a public vote. On a number of social issues Germany finds itself at political crossroads. No government may or should initiate changes in this area without directly consulting its citizens. Therefore, the introduction of national referenda based on the Swiss model is a non-negotiable component of any coalition agreement signed by the AfD. 1.2 Lean Government for Free Citizens Government should serve its citizens, and not vice versa. Therefore, only lean government is good government. Government should merely provide a framework within which its citizens can thrive. A constant and often ideology-driven expansion of government functions has reached financial and practical limitations, and is a threat to the fundamental rights of freedom of its citizens. Government has taken on too many tasks. There is a need to focus on four classic functions performed by government: domestic and foreign security, justice, foreign relations, and financial administration. All other functions require special justification. We want to examine to which extent current government functions can be performed by private or other institutions. Germany is faced with huge demographic challenges, which will require a new understanding of the role of government and its institutions. Fundamental to our political convictions is a view of humanity which seeks the opportunities offered by freedom, but which likewise is mindful of its challenges. We do not believe in promises contained in various ideologies, nor are we convinced of the emergence of a new and better mankind. We regard the philosophy of history which envisages the development of a superior individual human morality to be both presumptuous and dangerous. The evolution of history has not come to finality, but continues to deliver both surprising new twists and turns, and crises and catastrophes. History will thus never come to an end, in as much as politics will come to a standstill and in which the contest for the best political solutions becomes superfluous. Freedom, stability and economic welfare need to be won and secured anew by each generation. A realistic political concept should always keep in mind the imperfection and uncertainty of its possible outcomes. It should take into account that no matter how shrewd the political actor, he can never gain complete knowledge of the conditions and possibilities of his actions. In many policy areas the established political parties claim that there are no alternatives due to factual constraints. We believe that this stance is a real threat to democracy and the constitutional state. We contend that the rule of law, the adherence to contracts and agreements, as well as democratic legitimisation, take precedence over short-sighted activism and the playing to the voter gallery in the run-up to elections. As the “party of good common sense” we count on the sound judgment and willingness of qualified citizens to step up and take responsibility. The guiding principle of our programme is the fundamental conviction that the German people themselves, wherever possible, should be able to determine the run of political events. 1.3 Guarantee the Separation of Powers Following the tradition of the German constitutions of 1848, 1871 and 1919 as well as the “Grundgesetz” (German Constitution) of 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany is a constitutional state built on the principle of the separation of powers. In reality, numerous laws and regulations impair the separation of powers, which is one of the basic principles of governance underlying every modern democracy. In essence, the separation of powers guarantees the existence of checks and balances, which enables the executive, legislative and judiciary branches of government to exercise mutual control over one another. The idea of checks and balances is incompatible with the current situation in which government ministers are also Members of Parliament (where Parliament’s task is to control the executive branch of government), and former politicians, who are appointed as high court judges. The same argument applies to party political networks known for their close personal relationships between holders of a political office and officials from other branches of government. These networks impede the checks and balances between the three powers. 1.4 Separate Political Office and Membership of Parliament The lack of separation of personnel between the executive branch of government (responsible for the implementation of policy within the legal framework) and the legislature (Parliament, responsible for law-making) is a severe violation of the principle of separation of powers. The AfD wants to introduce appropriate countermeasures. Civil servants elected to any German parliament should be suspended from their previous job. Yet, this principle is ignored even by the highest level of government executives. Members of Parliament should no longer be allowed to simultaneously serve in an executive capacity, and vice versa. The offices of parliamentary under-secretaries and ministers of state should be permanently abolished. Government ministers, the chancellor and prime ministers of German federal states should no longer be Members of Parliament whilst holding executive office. The positions of politically appointed civil servants, or special advisers, should also be ceased across all areas of government, and from departmental heads to police presidents. Members of the executive should be independent and act loyally. Vacancies in the civil service and the judiciary should be filled according to professional qualifications and competence (§ 33 (2) of the German Constitution). Appointments made on the basis of party membership should be disallowed, and political patronage made an offence. 1.5 Limit the Influence and Power of Political Parties Political parties should participate within the political system, but should not control it (§ 21 (1) of the German Constitution). The omnipotence of political parties and their exploitation of the state are endangering our democracy. This omnipotence is one of the key reasons for the deep-seated disenchantment with politics, the harmful phenomenon of political correctness, and political opinions perceived to be dictated top-down in public debates. Only direct democracy exercised by the electorate can return political parties to the democratic system. Our Members of Parliament have forfeited their role as true representatives of the German people. Members of Parliament currently are, first and foremost, loyal to the political parties they belong to. It is the political parties that enable them to succeed in elections, and winning elections allows MPs to make a living. This dependence of Members of Parliament on their respective parties leads to the estrangement from their voters. 1.5.1 Realign Party Funding and Constitutional Law Political funding should conform to the German Constitution and be limited to appropriate levels. Until 1959, public funding of political parties did not exist in the Federal Republic of Germany. In 1959, the principle of refunding costs for election campaigns was established. Since then, the Law on Political Parties has created a funding system known as “public part-funding”. According to this principle, political parties enjoy a statutory right to annually recurring subsidies from the Exchequer. In 2015, these contributions amounted to 159.2 million Euro. Furthermore, members of German state parliaments are entitled to public grants for staff costs amounting to 20 000 Euro per month. In 2015, this amounted to total annual costs of 172 million Euro for the 7000 members of staff in the German Bundestag (lower house of the federal parliament). In addition, the political parties represented in the German Bundestag receive funding for so-called “scientific advisory services”, which amounted to 83 million Euro in 2015. Removed from day-to-day politics, a system of party-affiliated foundations has been created in law. These foundations are associations funded by annual payments from the Exchequer, amounting to at least 95 million Euro in 2015.Overall, the current system of party political funding is predominantly a concealed system, in which political parties receive public funds many times over the limits allowed by law. The Constitutional Court has passed judgement that both the legal design of the funding arrangements, as well as the appropriation of funds, are in violation of the German Constitution. Concealed funding of political parties is now completely out of control, with annual costs of approximately 600 million Euro. This is four times as much as the limit set by the Law on Funding of Political Parties. The AfD will put public funding of political parties on an entirely new legal basis. The guideline for redesign is a transparent system that is clearly limited to direct co-funding of expenses with defined upper limits, and which adheres to the guidelines provided by the Constitutional Court. Contrary to current practice, all financial resources targeted for the funding of political parties should be subject to the control of public audit offices. Audit results should be made public. The rules governing donations should be redrafted with a view to making them more restrictive and corruption-proof. Further, German political parties should not be permitted to invest in or accept donations from companies. 1.5.2 Free Election of Candidates Over time, Germany’s political class has exploited and modified election laws and procedures with increasing cunningness in order to reduce the influence of the electorate. The election of independent candidates, as set out in the German Constitution and the Electoral Act, merely exists on paper. Instead, voters are presented with lists of candidates pre-selected by the political parties. Thus, the voters’ first of two votes only has a very limited influence on the composition of Members of Parliament. In reality, political parties control the parliamentary representation by the favourable placement of candidates on election lists. The AfD‘s aim is a redesign of the electoral system, which places the decision on the composition of Parliament back in the hands of voters, thereby strengthening the free mandate of the elected Members of Parliament. We are thus in favour of a system whereby candidates are free to put themselves forward for election on election lists in state and federal elections. In turn, voters would be given the power to cumulate or split their vote, or delete candidates on election lists. The AfD also intends to introduce a minimum threshold for the number of votes cast for a candidate in order to gain entry into Parliament. In case of low voter turnouts, the number of parliamentary seats should be reduced accordingly1.5.3 Reduce the Size of the German Parliaments We also advocate a significant reduction in the size of the federal and state parliaments. A reduction from the current total number of 2500 Members of Parliament, together with a proportional reduction in the headcount of administrative support staff, would yield considerable cost savings and lead to an increase in the quality of parliamentary work. A member of the German Bundestag (lower house of the federal parliament) currently represents around 128 000 German citizens, while in the USA the corresponding ratio between voters and their representatives is approximately 1:600 000. For the German Bundestag we deem the number of 471 seats as recommended by the Association of Taxpayers to be sufficient. 1.5.4 Restrict Career Politicians by Limiting the Tenure of Office The trend amongst politicians to view politics as a career has lead to a monopolization of power and widening of the gap between the people and the political class. This has resulted in nepotism, structures which are prone to corruption, and unethical lobbyism. This detrimental development within society can be counteracted by limiting the tenure of office of office bearers, and restrict the concentration of power of political parties. This will restore our ideal of the people representative. We are in favour of limiting the tenure of office of parliamentary representation to four legislative terms. This regu lation should not apply to Members of Parliament who have won their constituencies outright. 1.5.5 Direct Election of the Federal President by the People Currently, the Federal President is proposed and elected by the Federal Convention. One half of the Federal Convention is made up by the Members of the Lower House of the Federal Parliament, the other half by proportional representation from all state parliaments. The representatives of the latter half are determined behind closed doors by the political parties. In order to bring greater transparency to the election of the Federal President, changes are required to § 54 of the German Constitution to enable the direct election of the Federal President by the German people. 1.6 Curtail Lobbyism We demand that Members of Parliament devote their full attention to their parliamentary duties. Parliamentary duties should not be adversely affected by paid sideline activities. Wide-spread lobbyism in Brussels and Berlin has to be curtailed. Sideline activities of Members of Parliament have reached such a scale that they are having a detrimental effect on democracy and parliamentary duties. Many representatives use their political mandate to obtain lucrative sideline jobs for personal enrichment.However, the greatest danger that sideline activities pose to democracy is that they are frequently associated with lobbyism, or even corruption. For good democratic reasons we thus want to tighten rules for sideline activities and clamp down on bribery. Public representatives should thus be allowed to only pursue those jobs they performed prior to entering Parliament, but on a considerably reduced scale. With regard to its own members, the AfD has already laid down strict guidelines in § 19 (2) of its charter. The AfD supports legislation on lobbyism with specific rights, duties and sanctions for both Members of Parliament and lobbyists, and which can be compared to the best examples from other democracies. We aim to control lobbyism, ensure transparency in sideline jobs, and maintain the quality of work in Parliament. Thus, we particularly welcome the work of organisations fighting lobbyism. 1.6.1 Private Pension Scheme for Members of Parliament There is also a need to reform the pension scheme of the members of the German Bundestag (lower house of the federal parliament). The current pension scheme does not make provision for personal contributions by its members. After only half a working life (i.e. 27 years) Members of Parliament are already eligible to maximum pension payments of 6130 Euro per month. A middle income employee, however, is only entitled to a monthly pension of less than 1200 Euro after 43 working years and contributions to the pension scheme. The AfD is in favour of a radical reform of the expensive pension scheme for Members of Parliament, which places an excessive burden on the shoulders of taxpayers. The reform could also contain a recommendation that Members of Parliament should make their own private pension arrangements. 1.6.2 Punish Wastage of Tax Revenues Whilst tax evasion of relatively insignificant amounts is prosecuted in Germany, the wastage of tax revenues - which is equally detrimental to public welfare - is not punished at all. Shocking construction cost overruns, nonsensical purchases, and lavish prestige projects initiated by public officials and agency heads go largely unpun-ished as a result of current legislation. The AfD wishes to introduce a new criminal offence on budget fraud. This legislation will strengthen the rights of taxpayers and punish extreme cases of waste of tax funds by public servants and officials.EUROPE AND THE EURO Our continent is characterised by different national and regional traditions, which lend it its uniqueness. We oppose the idea to transform the European Union into a centralised federal state. We are in favour of returning the European Union to an economic union based on shared interests, and consisting of sovereign, but loosely connected nation states. We strive to live in a spirit of friendship and good neighbourliness. We reject the idea of a United States of Europe, as well as that of a federal state from which an exit is impossible. We believe in a sovereign Germany, which guarantees the freedom and security of its citizens, promotes economic welfare, and contributes to a peaceful and prosperous Europe. Should we not succeed with our ideas of a fundamental reform within the present framework of the European Union, we shall seek Germany‘s exit, or a democratic dissolution of the EU, followed by the founding of a new European economic union.2.1 A Europe of Nation States We believe in the freedom of the European nations devoid of foreign paternalism. Structures based on the rule of law, economic prosperity, as well as a stable and equitable social system should be regarded as national responsibilities. We support structural reforms to strengthen the international competitiveness of European states, but we are decidedly opposed to a transfer union and any efforts towards centralisation. European politics are characterised by a creeping loss of democracy. The EU has become an undemocratic entity, whose policies are determined by bureaucrats who have no democratic accountability. A fundamental reform of the EU is necessary, if it is to remain a beacon of freedom and democracy in the world. 2.2 Restore the Powers of Nation States With the Maastricht Treaty of 1992, and especially its amendment in Lisbon in 2007, the political elites have taken steps to permanently transform the EU into a centralised state. This was decided in spite of the popular referenda in France and the Netherlands in 2005. In both countries, citizens rejected the so-called Treaty on the Foundation of a European Community. Nevertheless, the political leadership of the major EU nations wishes to enforce this project - come hell or high water - against the obvious majority will of the peoples within the EU. We, on the contrary, advocate the strict retention of the principle of subsidiarity and the restoration of powers to the nation states. The vision of a centralised European state inevitably entails the loss of sovereignty of individual EU member states and their constituent populations. Only the national democracies, created by their nations in painful history, are able to offer their citizens the necessary and desired framework for identification and shelter. Only they can offer the greatest possible rights of individual and collective freedom. Only they can maintain and ensure these rights. Promises that communities and international organisations can be a substitute for functioning democratic nation states are not being kept and are unfeasible. These are old utopias which have re-occurred over time. The realisation of these utopias has always brought great suffering to mankind. Stable democratic nation states are the foundation of a peaceful world order. In this regard, international organisations that do not have the character of a state, and which are based on free accord, can be of assistance. For decades, the European Economic Community (EEC) contributed to peace and prosperity in Western Europe (1957 to 1993). But the European Union has, over the years, acquired powers for which there is no reference in European treaties. The increasing centralisation of sovereignty rights, and attempts to create a European federal state, are irrational and not sustainable. The AfD firmly rejects these endeavours. The governing bodies of the EU, especially the Council of Ministers, the EU Commission, and the EU Parliament are not sufficiently and democratically legitimised. These deficiencies in the system, and the officebearers’ remoteness from daily life, have promoted the creation of excessive powers and bureaucratic structures. 2.3 Pool Common European Interests In terms of foreign policy, the AfD advocates the pooling of European community interests without curtailing the sovereignty, democratic co-operation, and legislative powers of member states. We reject a formal, common EU Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), as well as a common European Foreign Service. Instead, we strive to strengthen interstate agreements among European partner nations and, where possible, to act jointly. We advocate a flexible network of European states in which each European nation can participate according to its capabilities. This was the case in the Western European Union (WEU). For cultural and geographical reasons, a participation of non-European countries should not be considered. Consequently, we also oppose admission of Turkey to the EU. As far as relations with non-European countries are concerned, the foreign policy and security interests of Germany are to be taken into consideration. 2.4 National Referendum on the Euro We call for an end to the Euro experiment and its orderly dissolution. Should the German Federal Parliament not agree to this demand, Germany’s continued membership of the single currency area should be put to a popular vote.Long before today’s Euro zone was politically planned in the 1990s, it has been a region of economic, monetary, political and cultural differences. Going by all historical experience, a single currency area is not suited to a heterogeneous, supranational monetary union and should, in the first place, never have been expanded beyond the free-trade zone of the EEC. From the very beginning, the introduction of the Euro has been a purely political project. All warning messages from economists and historians were ignored. Since 1999, the Euro exchange rates to national currencies in the current Euro zone were fixed, which resulted in uniform interest rates. Consequently, two vital market economic tools were removed from member states, which until 1998 had been used to successfully balance differences in the economic performance between Euro member states. Since then, the necessary adjustment of productivity differences through nominal upward and downward revaluation of national currencies has been prevented by the Euro. The economic development potential of the Euro nations has therefore been reduced. For a considerable period of time the Euro zone has produced growth rates below the world-wide average. According to the aspirations proclaimed in Lisbon, the Euro zone was supposed to become the “most dynamic and innovative economic zone in the world”. After seventeen years of artificially-enforced, marketremote currency regulations, the common currency is no longer viable without ongoing massive wealth transfers into EU member states that do not meet the standards of the currency union. The Euro project has thus become a failure. Ever since tensions began rising after the proliferation of target credits in 2008, and especially since Euro rescue operations took on a permanent character from 2010 onwards, the misconstruction can only be preserved by permanent and illegal intervention in the form of German credit assistances and liability assurances, or through ECB (European Central Bank) purchases of non-negotiable government bonds, which are not traded in the open market. However, these assistance measures provided by the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), Outright Monetary Transactions (OMT), TARGET and the banking union only address the symptoms and buy time, instead of treating the root causes of the lack of economic competitiveness resulting from structural and cost factors, and the unsustainable debt accumulation by many member states. Countries on the receiving end of these bailouts are encouraged by far too low interest rates to take out sizeable loans which private market participants would never lend to them. These countries thus become incapable of meeting debt sustainability targets outlined in EU treaties, which pose unforeseen future repercussions. Transfer payments add to existing economic and political tensions between donor and recipient countries. In the process, the costs of maintaining the Euro zone will far outweigh its benefits, and European integration capabilities will be overstretched. In the mid-term, it will not be sustainable to uphold these permanent transfers, which are enforced against the will of the majority of the people. Furthermore, the size of credits and liabilities overextend the German state, who is the main guarantor.In the case of national bond markets, the supra-national Euro rescue policies consistently violate the prohibition of government financing through the ECB, and the ban on the assumption of liability for debts of other member states contained in Articles 123 and 125 of the TFEU (Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union). In accordance with Article 110 of the German Constitution, as well as a current judgement of the Federal Constitutional Court (Lisbon decision of 30.06.2009), the authority on government expenditure is regarded as a “core component and inalienable element of national sovereignty”. Thus, the rescue policies of the EU, the ECB, and the ESM violate sovereignty rights. In addition, these policies are in breach of political and contractual promises made to voters that Germany would never be liable for the debts of other countries. Therefore, the principles of the original German consent to the Maastricht Treaty, which led to the introduction of the Euro, have been nullified. The EU policy of attaching conditions to financial assistance is implausible, as there are no sanction mechanisms wherever violations of the conditions occur. As the Euro zone does not make provision for state bankruptcies, credits are even not denied in those instances in which conditions for the granting of credits are not met. Therefore, the donor nations are always vulnerable to extortion – a serious flaw in EU treaties. The Euro actually jeopardises the peaceful co-existence of those European nations who are forced into sharing a common destiny by the Eurocracy. The introduction of this currency has led to resentment and confrontation amongst countries in Europe. Countries incurring economic difficulties within the single currency area are forced to restore their competitiveness by such measures as internal devaluation and associated budgetary constraints (austerity policies), rather than exploiting the tool of currency adjustments. Tensions amongst European nation states can inherently be ascribed to the Euro. Rescue measures related to the Euro, some of which go as far as proposing an EU economic government, are illegitimate encroachments on the democratic decision processes of participating nations. The liability risks which have accumulated to date, and which amount to hundreds of billions of Euro, have never been debated in, and authorised by, the national parliaments. The Euro can be regarded as a large-scale experiment, which affects the entire continent. The legacy of Europe’s history is the democratic rule of law and the peaceful co-existence of sovereign nation states. The establishment of the Euro zone thus threatens to destroy this cultural heritage. In order to prevent this, the foolhardy Euro experiment should be instantly discontinued. The AfD advocates an end to Germany’s continued participation in the mistaken rescue politics, which are economically and legally flawed, and to exit the EU monetary union should the partner states reject this proposal. As an alternative to the German exit, a joint and controlled dissolution of the monetary union will be put forward. The AfD is fully aware that the correction of an almost 20 year old aberration will be painful. However, remedial measures are unavoidable, as it is irresponsible to perpet-uate a system in which every additional credit guarantee, for example to Greece, will be defaulted with absolute certainty. It is imperative to act now, rather than throwing good money after bad. The one-time losses of an exit will be lower and more manageable than the costs of remaining within the Euro system. Any delay in solving this problem will only increase the financial risks. Any future federal government, in which the AfD participates, shall exercise the right to leave the Euro monetary union by claiming circumventions of the fundamental principles and cessation of the economic basis of the Euro agreements. Germany’s withdrawal from the monetary union is in the national and European interest. In its judgement on the Maastricht Agreement (1993), the German Federal Constitutional Court stated that no impediments would prevent Germany from withdrawing, if the monetary union failed to meet the goals of a “community based on stability”. Germany will make it abundantly clear that leaving the Euro is not directed against other members of the single currency union, but is as a result of a disastrous development which needs to be corrected for the benefit of all nations in the Euro zone. As a result, all agreements in connection with the common currency will subsequently become null and void for Germany. The European Stability Mechanism will immediately have to cease the granting of loans partly collateralised by German securities, and will be phased out by Germany in the course of time. All other rescue mechanisms will expire for Germany. Current contributions will be limited and restricted to only those commitments which have already been entered.2.5 No Liability for Foreign Banks We oppose the progressive European collectivisation of liability risks from banking transactions. Further steps towards a liability and transfer union are being created by placing both the banking union and banking supervision under the auspices of the ECB, thereby exceeding existing liability mechanisms of the monetary union. To an even greater extent, productive nations (like Germany) have to bear the political shortcomings of other EU member countries. Those countries, which until now have failed to meet their economic and fiscal targets, can forthwith continue in the same vein, thereby taking for granted that the adverse consequences of their policies will be settled by other countries in the EU community, particularly by Germany. Up to now this has only been common practice for state finances (deficit compensation by others). From now on, municipal savings banks, co-operative banks and the private banking sector will all be subjected to this redistribution policy, thereby creating a joint liability amongst all participants. The plans for these projects have been introduced under the headings of “banking union” and the European Deposit Insurance Scheme (EDIS). A supervisory banking authority has already been established under the umbrella of the ECB, and under the pretext that financial crises and chain reactions are more easily averted by uniform assessments. We perceive serious conflicts of interest in the dual role taken on by a non-transparent ECB. The ECB simultaneously acts as a creditor and a supervisory authority for subordinate commercial banks. We advocate the restoration of national sovereignty over the banks and financial services. This sector of the economy is crucial to a smooth functioning of our national economy. For this reason the AfD demands that the joint liabilities of German banks are confined to the national level, and that, as before, German banks are permitted to establish their own system of cross-guarantees, which take into account the different banking profiles. This demand of limiting the liability of German banks to the national level will become a non-negotiable item of any future coalition agreement on government signed by the AfD. The supervision of banks has to remain entirely under national jurisdiction, irrespective of unified EU standards. The German banking supervision should at all times be able to set up and enforce regulations on equity capital securities. As a political party promoting social market economics, the AfD strives to ensure that, ultimately, bank insolvencies will not be offloaded on the taxpayer. Being “too big to fail” should not allow banks to evade liability for mismanagement and risky behaviour. In the case of an impending bankruptcy, systemically relevant banks should be recapitalised, by firstly using their own equity capital, and subsequently converting borrowed capital into equity. Under all circumstances, savings deposits and current accounts with near-zero interest rates are to be excluded from recapitalisation efforts. External providers of equity and debt capital, managers, and shareholders are required to assume liability ahead of saving deposit holders or tax payers. Action has to remain linked to accountabilityIn the medium term, the current equity capital requirements for banks will result in a further escalation of the banking crisis. Therefore, we require that banks maintain sufficient equity capital as a risk buffer, even in the case of government bonds. It is unacceptable that Greek bonds should have lower risk assessments than credits for medium-sized German companies. Furthermore, we consider it essential that equity ratios for banks, hedge funds and shadow banking systems should be increased significantly. Until Germany exits the Euro monetary union, the Target 2 balances, i.e. the balances between the national central banks and the ECB, will have to be settled annually. Loans to foreign countries will once again be backed by collateral, which may include natural resources and rights to these.NATIONAL SECURITY AND JUSTICE We intend to strengthen the constitutional state and ensure that law and order is once again enforced. Firstly, citizens should be able to rely on the judicial system and on their individual rights. Secondly, government bodies and state institutions will have to follow the rule of law. The people are not safe in a country which does not respect its very own laws. National security can only be guaranteed where there is adherence to the rule of law. National security is a core task of our state. It ensures that citizens can live together in peace in an open and free society, irrespective of origin or religion. It is a prerequisite for our freedom, our wealth, and our democracy. National security is increasingly on the decline in Germany. The reasons for this are manifold. In order to improve the situation, changes are necessary in the police force and the judiciary. Their ability to intervene should be adapted to new challenges and the sources of increased criminal activity, now and in the future. Therefore, the AfD is calling for a turnaround in security policy, and to bring the topic of public safety back to the fore. Other interests will have to stand back. We want a fundamental change in the system, and a return to state authorities who are capable of providing maximum protection to citizens by way of immigration authorities, law enforcement agencies, and criminal prosecution. For these authorities we want to establish a better and more modern set of regulations.3.1 Strengthen Law Enforcement and Improve Criminal Justice Services The police force is over-stretched: Austerity measures, branded as “police reforms”, have resulted in a massive drain in personnel, which have led to irresponsible and untenable deficits. It is imperative to improve staffing plans and modernise equipment. In particular, the IT landscape has to be harmonised on the federal and regional level and has to follow equal standards. For a better evaluation of crimes, the criminal statistics have to be freed of any political interference in order to draw an unbiased picture of reality, and should be complemented by a “dark field” study. The AfD is committed to a speedy improvement of judicial services, a return to our legal system, and an effective legal protection for citizens. The justice services have to improve on responsiveness and reliability. Due to increased brutality of juvenile delinquents and the pressing problems of young offenders with extensive criminal records, it is appropriate to fully apply the criminal law devised for adults to all persons from the age of 18 years, and to lower the age of criminal responsibility to 12 years. The state has to forcefully punish heavy crimes and, in doing so, send out an unmistakable warning and a message that preventative measures will be taken, thereby regaining the respect of young serial offenders. We plead that the order of imprisonment on remand is placed on the statute book, and enforced in cases where the suspicion of a serious crime exists according to Paragraph 12, Section 1 of the German Criminal Code. Currently, our criminal justice services have to operate under a code of criminal procedures which date back to the 19th century. Staff has to be increased, prosecutions have to be accelerated through appropriate measures, whilst upholding the constitutional prerequisites for fair trials. The methods of criminal summary proceedings as well as accelerated penal procedures are to be improved. The legal system has to be designed in such a way that judgements are speeded up, also by abolishing the practice of revoking sentences, and the dismissal of re-trials. 3.2 Free, Independent, and Unbiased Prosecutors, Judges, and Audit Offices The AfD intends to end the influence of political parties on the appointments and nominations of judges and prosecutors, and to prevent such influence in the future. We also plan to end the current practice whereby public prosecutors are subject to directives from, and in ad hoc cases, obliged to report to the Minister of Justice. The independence of the judiciary has to be expanded and strengthened, as is commonplace in many other European countries. Therefore, we support the recommendation of the German Association of Judges to install a selection board for judges and a judicial control body. In particular, the constitutional courts and the audit offices should be void of any political interference.3.3 Severely Punish Attacks on Officials Increased aggression against officials and emergency personnel (e.g. police officers, fire-fighters and medical rescue staff), and in particular physical attacks, has to be dealt with by minimum jail sentences of three months. A new statutory offence should be instituted to protect police officers from unprovoked attacks. 3.4 Protect Victims, Not Offenders Instead of creating ever new means of protecting offenders, we need to objectively refocus on the protection of victims. Untreatable alcoholics, incurable drug addicts, and the psychologically ill, who pose a serious threat to society, should not be placed in psychiatric wards, but held in protective custody. All parole measures require the approval of public prosecutors. The high proportion of foreign nationals involved in violent and drug-related crimes are only dealt with half-heartedly under current Immigration Laws, and often result in the side-stepping of forced repatriation orders. Hurdles to forced repatriation need to be lowered, and repatriation processes tightened up by combining criminal convictions with repatriation orders. Agreements need to be signed by Germany with foreign countries to create reception centres for deported persons and preventative detention facilities for dangerous criminals. We call for the better prevention and forfeiture of German citizenship of all foreign criminals, the reinstatement of the status quo of the jus sanguinis (the principle of nationality law), which was valid until 2000, and to enforce the loss of citizenship for certain crimes in existing legislation. 3.5 No Further Tightening of Firearms Legislation A liberal and constitutional state has to trust its citizens. The state has to live with the fact that its citizens legally buy and own weapons. The constitutional state has to guarantee the freedom of action of its citizens, and has to minimise any interference therewith. The AfD opposes any form of restrictions of civil rights by tightening firearms legislation. By criminalising gun ownership offenders are not deterred, but victims are made more vulnerable. The tightening of firearms legislation will not restrict terrorists or other criminals in obtaining illegal arms, trading them, or putting them to use. The tightening of firearms legislation presents another step towards the criminalisation of respectable citizens, as well as comprehensive state surveillance and paternalism. 3.6 No Data Protection for Perpetrators The right to self-determination with regard to personal information is an important legal principle, as is the principle of data privacy. Nonetheless, it is worth examining if the safety of the general public, as well as that of industry and business, is adequately taken into account. Where doubts exist, the right of public safety will have to be valued higher than the right of self-determination of information with regard to criminals. Where new data protectionmeasures are implemented, it is always necessary to take into account the additional time required by investigators and the judicial system to acquaint themselves. The ultimate goal must be to provide a better quality of life for the majority of citizens. In the past, an exaggerated and ideologically motivated set of data protection measures have paralysed authorities and created a bureaucratic monster. As a consequence, law-abiding citizens now enjoy less security, whilst perpetrators enjoy data protection. The right to refuse evidence should remain untouched for personal and professional reasons. 3.7 Fight Organised Crime Organised crime must be fought in a more sustained way. Measures should include a more effective confiscation of the proceeds of crime, and consequently a better use of the legal instruments of forfeiture and confiscation. The majority of offenders in the field of organised crime are foreign nationals. Deportation of this group of people needs to be simplified. Where foreign nationals are suspected and convicted of organised crime, deportation must follow immediately. 3.8 Regard Civil and Special Courts as Location Factors The private sector regards an efficient judicial system in the areas of civil and labour law, as well as special courts (e.g. with administrative and financial jurisdiction), as favourable factors when seeking location opportunities. Fast and efficient courts make Germany an attractive location for business and industry. Improved material and personnel resources in German courts are therefore of great importance and need to be attended to. The AfD also demands the adherence to the principle of prohibition on retroactivity, and is not in favour of artificial or genuine retroactivity. 3.9 Protect German Borders The AfD is of the opinion that the protection of Europe’s external borders as inadequate, and favours the establishment of a national German Border Police Force under the auspices of the German Federal Police. Operational border crossing points are to be re-established on Germany‘s own borders. These operational border points should be able to be beefed-up at short notice, depending on the security assessment. Modelled on the Austrian system, members of the German Armed Forces ought to be deployed to protect the “green border” with neighbouring countries. Wherever necessary, protective fences or similar barriers are to be set upFOREIGN AND SECURITY POLICY At present, the Federal Republic of Germany is pursuing a policy of adjustment which lacks clear direction. This has led to a situation in which other states and institutions have influence and control over German foreign and security policy. Germany’s and Europe’s ability to make decisions and take action on security matters has eroded. For this reason, Germany is becoming increasingly dependent on the protection and support of allies, particularly the United States of America, and cannot represent its own interests adequately. The AfD therefore wishes to develop and implement a comprehensive and long-term strategy for Germany’s foreign affairs and security policy. The national interest and welfare of the German people must be at the heart of this policy. As one of the major economic powers, Germany is interested in developing and maintaining good relationships with all countries. The participation in international alliances and organisations is a cornerstone of German foreign and security policy. This co-operation is complemented by intergovernmental co-operation. 4.1 Reform the United Nations As an organisation, the United Nations is indispensable when it comes to security and peace in the world. The AfD is committed to ensuring that Germany, as an active member of the United Nations, plays a constructive role in solving and coping with international conflicts. The aim must be to defuse international flashpoints diplomatically, to avoid humanitarian disasters, and entire communities to lose their homes, which in turn would lead to uncon-trolled migration to Europe. We are in favour of a policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states. The attempt by organisations and international corporations to influence the internal politics of countries or their elites in order to impose their political or economic interests must be constrained. Therefore, the AfD advocates the strengthening and reform of the United Nations, including the Security Council. Global power shifts should be taken into account. As an internationally respected country, and the third largest financial contributor to the UN, we demand a permanent seat for Germany on the UN Security Council. Due to customary international law, and in agreement with the former Allies, the basic assumptions of the Enemy States Clause has changed fundamentally. It remains the objective of the AfD to have it deleted permanently. The AfD affirms Germany’s obligations to safeguard the wellbeing of German minorities living abroad.  4.2 NATO as a Defensive Alliance Membership of NATO corresponds to Germany‘s interests with regard to foreign and security policy, as long as NATO’s role remains that of a defensive alliance. We are in favour of a substantial strengthening of the European component of the North Atlantic Alliance. To achieve this objective, it is necessary to restore the military capabilities of the German Armed Forces, and to align these with strategic and operative requirements. The AfD thus calls for a restoration of Germany’s defensive capabilities, not only for the purpose of ensuring national defence as the main task of the German Armed Forces, but also to meet Alliance requirements, and perform crisis prevention measures. Membership of NATO corresponds to Germany‘s interests with regard to foreign and security policy, as long as NATO’s role remains that of a defensive alliance. The AfD believes that predictability in meeting commitments towards NATO allies is an important goal of German foreign and security policy, so that Germany can develop more political weight to shape policies, and gain influence. We advocate that any engagement of NATO must be aligned to German interests, and has to correspond to a clearly defined strategy. NATO has to be reformed, and the armed forces of the European partner states have to be restructured in such a way that they can ensure security in Europe and at its periphery. Wherever German Armed Forces, as part of NATO operations, are involved beyond the borders of its Alliance partners’ territory, shall, in principle, only be carried out under a UN mandate, and only if German security interests are taken into account. The Allies and Germany work together on equal terms and with mutual respect. They co-operate in questions of major international importance. Against this background, and 70 years after the end of World War II, and 25 years after the end of a divided Europe, the renegotiation of the status of Allied troops in Germany should be put up for discussion. The status of Allied troops needs to be adapted to Germany’s regained sovereignty. The AfD is committed to the withdrawal of all Allied troops stationed on German soil, and in particular of their nuclear weapons. 4.3 OSCE and the European Security Framework The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is an essential instrument of European peace and order. We advocate that its role in European conflicts is strengthened and enhanced, with the view to stabilising crisis regions. The relationship with Russia is of prime importance, because European security cannot be attained without Russia’s involvement. Therefore, we strive for a peaceful solution of conflicts in Europe, whilst respecting the interests of all parties. The AfD is in favour of a foreign policy which is committed to safeguarding the security, economic and cultural interests of Germany. We are committed to protect the freedom of international trade routes, international communication infrastructure (e.g. the internet), the protection of the natural environment, and the fair use of global resources. 4.4 Strengthen the German Armed Forces Currently, the operational readiness of the German Armed Forces is severely compromised. Due to poor political decisions and mismanagement, our armed forces have been severely neglected for over three decades. The operational readiness has to be fully restored so that the armed forces will be able to perform all their responsibilities. This is an essential prerequisite for the acceptance of Germany as an equal partner by NATO, the EU and the international community. 4.4.1 No European Army The AfD rejects the idea of a combined European military force, and subscribes to well-equipped and trained German Armed Forces as the pillar of German sovereignty. This does not preclude the continuous co-operation of the German Armed Forces with its Allies. Germany needs military forces whose leadership, strength and equipment are adapted to the requirements of future conflicts, and which comply with the highest international standards. It needs troops which are trained according to the requirements of modern combat, as well as an administration which is oriented towards the welfare of the troops, combined with considerably reduced bureaucracyAnother indispensable factor is the existence of national defence capabilities, which are necessary to remain independent in key technologies, to keep pace with the latest developments in armaments technology, and to preserve jobs in the domestic defence industry. The military budget has to be increased to a level which is adequate for preserving the security and freedom of Germany and its Allies. The size and equipment of the armed forces need to be adapted to both the tasks at hand, and to foreign and security policy requirements. Furthermore, the intelligence services should be restructured and reformed. They are an important instrument in detecting threats at home and abroad. The AfD rejects the current practice of funding intelligence services according to budgetary constraints. 4.4.2 Reinstate Compulsory Military Service Article 87a of the German Constitution states: “The Federal Government provides armed forces for national defence.” National defence is a joint national responsibility. It touches the core of our national life, and our free and democratic fundamental order. Therefore, national defence is the duty of every citizen. We respect exceptions for conscientious objectors, but we consider military service to be the duty of all young men, irrespective their social background. By reinstating compulsory military service we create the conditions for: a strong identification of the general public with the armed forces and its troops,an increased awareness of a strong and self-confident democracy, recruitment of personnel from all sectors of society, to enable an effective and highly qualified fighting force, the capability of a large contingent of reservists. Therefore, the AfD advocates the reinstatement of compulsory military service for all German males between the ages of 18 and 25 years. The duration of military service should be determined by the requirements of the armed forces, with a minimum period for thorough military training. Alternative civilian service should be provided for conscientious objectors. Women shall have the opportunity to perform military service on a voluntary basis.4.5 Development Aid Foreign aid should always follow the principle of capacity building. In this it has to be separated from humanitarian aid. It is in the interest of Germany that people in developing nations have a perspective for a better life in their respective home countries. The migration of poor people to Germany does not solve the problems of developing nations. Whilst there is a considerable need to support developing countries on the one hand, and limited means on the other, it is prudent to concentrate available resources. Only those projects ought to be supported which can be sustained by recipient countries or local corporations without foreign assistance after the agreed project period has expired. The principle of capacity building, as well as attention to the security and economic interests of Germany, have to be prioritised in future. Development aid should be regarded as a component of a comprehensive strategy on Foreign Affairs, and the administration of foreign aid should be moved to the Foreign Office. Germany’s foreign aid organisations such as the GIZ (German Society for International Co-Operation) and the KfW (German Reconstruction Loan Corporation) have to be streamlined and co-ordinated more effectively. Priority shall be given to projects which enjoy the investment and management support of local private enterprises. The root causes of migration have to be attended to in those countries in which they occur, irrespective of economic considerations of Western countries.LABOUR AND SOCIAL POLICY The working environment should enable all citizens to lead a self-determined life in relative well-being. As this claim might not necessarily be congruent with the objectives of the economy, government needs to establish an appropriate regulatory framework. 34 Labour and Social Policy This regulatory framework should not unnecessarily restrict those who are high achievers, whilst supporting those who are unable to care for themselves. The political arrangement of the conditions of working life, and all those systems that grant sufficient living conditions to the unemployed, belong to the most meaningful policy areas of modern statehood. 5.1 Free the Labour Market from Unnecessary Restrictions Prevailing labour law is split into multiple individual laws, which are joined into system by jurisdiction. This enduring crisis mode is incompatible with the principles of high quality legislation. In addition, numerous legal questions are subject to complex and regionally disparate jurisdiction, which makes court decisions highly unpredictable. That is why there is an urgent need for labour legislation which, on the one hand unifies individual laws, and on the other hand puts an end to excessive and inconsistent legal arbitration. 5.2 Dissolve the Federal Labour Agency and Upgrade Municipal Job Centres The AfD aims to dissolve the Federal Labour Agency and to transfer its responsibilities to municipal job centres. Thereafter, the municipal job centre will be the only public service provider in the labour market. That complies with a nationwide option model for benefits in accordance with SGB II (Social Security Statute Book II), which is already operational. Appropriately, federal family allowance payments should be performed by the Public Finance Administration. This happens to be a fiscal family support measure, which has been assigned to the Federal Labour Agency in accordance with Paragraph 368 Section 3 of the Social Security Statute Book II. Municipal job centres care for the unemployed and recipients of state aid. Further, they take care of job starters. All matters concerning unemployment and 35 Labour and Social Policy wage-replacement benefits are dealt with by a single administrative authority, the municipal job centre. 5.3 Retain Minimum Wages Minimum wages and the social market economy are closely connected. Minimum wages adjust the remunerative position of low-income workers as weak market players with respect to the interests of employers as strong market players. They also safeguard low-income workers against wage pressure caused by recent mass-immigration. Minimum wages enable an existence above the poverty line, and at least guarantee a humble pension, which otherwise would have to be paid for by society in the form of state support. Minimum wages thus prevent the privatisation of profits while costs are socialised. It is for this reason that the AfD supports the retention of minimum wages. 5.4 Reform the Social Security Systems We believe in families as our guiding principle, and for whom we seek equitable fiscal burdens with regard to social security. The AfD acknowledges the role of parents in giving birth to, raising, and educating children, both in a material and non-material sense. The Federal Constitutional Court has already compelled Parliament to pass appropriate legislation in this regard. The AfD aims to correct the existing financial disadvantages of families with children as opposed to childless families.5.4.1 End Financial Discrimination of Families Families with children suffer dramatic financial disadvantages when compared to childless families. This results in the impoverishment of families and a lasting low birth rate. Children are presented as a careerinhibiting factor by politics and the media. It is high time that we acknowledge the role of parents in a material and non-material sense. Germany has the lowest birth rate across Europe. On the one hand, this is due to an increase of childless families, and on the other hand, it is due to a decrease of large families. Should we not put an end to this undesirable demographic development, our pension schemes, our health insurance, and our nursing care insurance systems will collapse. The AfD is in favour of fundamental reforms for the benefit of Germany. This also pertains to social security systems. Without reforms, these systems cannot remain efficient. Further, high taxes and other financial burdens have a negative impact on the income of employees. Even the economic prosperity of Germany suffers. 5.4.2 Make Work Worthwhile by an Enabling Basic Income As an alternative to the German Unemployment Benefit II, commonly known as Hartz IV, the AfD wishes to introduce a so-called “enabling basic income”. According to this system, and in contrast to the current system of government support, the unemployment benefit will be reduced in proportion to the rising income, up to a point at which income tax becomes due. Income resulting from work shall no longer be fully offset by government support. Instead, employees will retain a substantial portion of their earnings. This creates an incentive to work. Those who work will dispose more income than those who do not work, but are capable of doing so (the principle, that benefits should be lower than wages). Any kind of abuse must be thoroughly avoided. 5.4.3 Compensate Parents for Raising and Educating their Children A reformed pension scheme and tax system must safeguard that large families with lower and mid-level income do not live below the poverty line, or close to it, and can build up sufficient pension entitlements of their own. Therefore, we want to consider the number of children, and the effort it takes to raise children, more than is the case at present. By way of dedicated government support for large families, the AfD will to encourage citizens to have more children. 5.4.4 Reward Nursing of Relatives Government contributions for nursing services to the elderly and performed by relatives, is lower than that paid to external nursing care services, or nursing homes. Persons nursing a relative are often faced with housekeeping and financial problems. We want to boost nursing care within the family environment.Across Germany, 70 % of elderly dependents are cared for at home. Nursing care service providers are reimbursed at twice the rate of that of relatives. The AfD will establish a framework which allows adults to make a conscious decision to nurse their relatives. A precondition for home nursing is the improvement of consultancy services in the form of a comprehensive support network for relatives performing nursing duties, and an alignment of nursing charges for the nursing of relatives to those of service care providers. The AfD wants German society to recognise family care as a contribution to the common good. Individual home care should become a core component of social security systems.FAMILIES AND CHILDREN It is a vital concern to the AfD to protect well-established cultural and regional traditions, and to preserve proven institutions. They keep people grounded and connected. Marriage and family are the nucleus and germ cells of civil society and a cornerstone of social cohesion, and therefore deserve special protection from government.6.1 Commitment to the Traditional Family as a Guiding Principle Appreciation and respect for the traditional family continues to decline in Germany. The requirements of children and parents must once again become the main focus of family politics. The increased trend of allowing government institutions such as day-care facilities and full-time schools to raise our children, the implementation of gender mainstreaming projects, and the general focus on individuality, all contribute to undermine the family as a significant and fundamental unit of society. The economy is calling for women as part of the workforce. There is a misconceived view of feminism, which favours women with a career above mothers and housewives. The latter often experience less recognition and are financially disadvantaged. The AfD is committed to the traditional family as a guiding principle. Marriage and families enjoy special protection under the German Constitution. In families, both parents share the ongoing responsibility for their children. The emphasis should once again be placed on the time and care parents give towards their children. There should once again be an incentive to marry, raise children, and spend time with them. The AfD will initiate a public discussion about strengthening the role of parents, and reduce the propagated stigmatisation of traditional gender roles. Children are not a roadblock to a career – indeed, they are our future.Where single parents bear the entire responsibility of raising children, they deserve special support. 6.2 Larger Families instead of Mass Immigration Germany’s negative demographic trend has to be counteracted. Mass immigration has a high potential for conflict and is not a viable economic solution. The only mid- and longterm solution is to attain a higher birth rate by the native population by stimulating family policies. The birth rate in Germany has been relatively consistent at 1.4 for more than 40 years and will therefore lead to a drastic population decrease over time. One in five women remains childless. Among graduate women the ratio worsened to one in three in 2012. Families with more than two children predominately belong to the socially underprivileged class. Members of the middle class have children later and later, whilst the number of large families within this category has been on the decline for years. In addition, Germany records about 100 000 abortions annually as account of so-called „social reasons“. At the same time, the life expectancy of the German population is continuously increasing, leading to a serious change in the population structure. The forecast of the Federal Office of Statistics is that Germany will have a population of 65 to 70 million by 2060, which is a stark decrease from 81 million in 2015. If the shift in the population pyramid and the lack of integration of immigrants into the labour market continues, several problems will arise, such as lower pensions, an increased tax burden for the working generation, and a decreased economic output. Social security systems will run into financial difficulties. In order to fight the effects of this negative demographic development, political parties currently in government support mass immigration, mainly from Islamic states, without due consideration of the needs and qualifications of the German labour market. During the past few years it has become evident that Muslim immigrants to Germany, in particular, only attain below-average levels of education, training and employment. As the birth rate is more than 1.8 children amongst immigrants, which is much higher than that of Germans, it will hasten the ethnic-cultural changes in society. The attempt to counteract these developments by increasing the rate of immigration will inevitably lead to the establishment of more parallel communities, particularly in large cities, where integration with the native population is already a problem. The spread of conflict-laden and multiple minority communities erodes social solidarity, mutual trust, and public safety, which all are elements of a stable community. The average level of education will continue to drop. Greater political support for parental work, as well as education and family policies which are focused on the needs of families and young couples wanting to start a family, will once again lead to birth rates at a self-sustaining rate in the medium to long-term. We regard the closing of the gap between the actual number of children being born, and the desire of 90% of young Germans to have children, as a central element of our political platform.  6.3 Increase Support for Families An alternative family policy has to strengthen families, both in a material and non-material sense. The current financial disadvantages endured by families with children, as opposed to couples without children, have to be addressed. In particular, the educated middle-income earners must once again be enabled to provide for a family without running the risk of old-age poverty. A possible tool would be the provision of interest-free loans for parents to encourage home ownership. The amount owed would decrease with each new-born child. We also want to help overcome obstacles faced by young students who wish to start a family whilst still studying, or shortly after completing their studies. We propose that students who start a family during their studies should have their student debts incurred in terms of the Federal Training Assistance Act waived after completing their studies. Further, the AfD wants to encourage families to have more children by means of special state support geared towards large families. 6.4 Effect of the Demographic Crisis on the Economic Outlook Aside from increasing the birth rate, Germany has to exploit all other available capacities. Basic and advanced education and training opportunities have to be optimised. Flexible models should be developed to provide for an extended working life which is accompanied by an increased life expectancy. The number of children raised and the heavy physical burdens associated with certain employment categories should be taken into account when determining the age of retirement with a full pension. Further, millions of unemployed people should not be neglected, as well as the commitment of an increasingly active older population. In understaffed professions it is important to provide satisfactory working conditions and remuneration in line with market trends. Finally, it is important to stave off the emigration of highly qualified professionals. Germans who have already emigrated should be encouraged to return with custom-tailored initiatives. A gradual reduction in the size of the population should not be regarded as a taboo in one of the most densely populated countries in the world. New, automated technologies and digitalisation offer Germany the chance to remain an economic powerhouse without a serious loss of prosperity, in spite of a decreasing labour force. The outlined family and migration policy should avoid a critical escalation of the demographic crisis, and support stable long-term population structures.6.5 End Discrimination of Full-Time Mothers The need for individual childcare has to be emphasized. For this reason, the social, financial, and economic burden of two occupations for parents with infants has to be reduced. There has to be freedom of choice regarding parental care, which is completely free of discrimination. The current family policy in Germany is defined by the guiding principle of a fully employed woman; therefore, the number of children raised outside of families is continuously on the rise. Security and a strong connection to a trustworthy reference person are the pre-requisites for a healthy psychological development of small children, and set the foundation for early bonding and healthy relationships later in life. Thus, the AfD demands that such care is focused on children under the age of three years of age. Childcare in nurseries may not enjoy the unilateral support of government. Care at home and at third-party childcare centres should be treated on an equal footing. Raising children at home with or without the help of family members, nannies or day-care providers have to enjoy an equal status, provided they are financially viable. The quality of day-care facilities must live up to international standards. Employment should not constantly overload parents or lead to moral conflicts. Family and work are only compatible where young parents have enough time to fulfil their role as parents. The AfD supports a shift in thinking in the working environment. Neither a career break for family reasons, nor part-time employment, should have a negative impact on future employment and career prospects. 6.6 Support Single Parents, Boost Families The AfD will address the financial plight of single parents and breadwinners. The break-up of partner relationships often leads to conflicts in exercising parents’ common right of education. After separation, it is in the best interest of child well-being that both parents are guaranteed equal access to and care of the child. The number of single parents with minor children is constantly increasing in Germany. As a rule, this way of life has serious shortcomings for all parties involved, and affects children in particular. Besides emotional distress, both single parents and breadwinners face the increased risk of poverty. The Alternative for Germany acknowledges the contribution of parents to society and will make beneficiary changes to taxation, social benefit and pension legislation. This will ensure that families, single parents, and the payers of alimony are less likely to encounter poverty. We firmly oppose pronouncements by organisations, media, and politicians who propagate single-parent families as a progressive or desirable lifestyle. Government should encourage the cohabitation of father, mother, and children by financial and other means in times of need. 6.7 Salute Unborn and Newborn Children The Alternative for Germany welcomes all unborn and newborn children. For every 700 000 live births in Germany, 100 000 pregnancies are terminated annually. Only three to four percent of these terminations can be ascribed to medical or criminological reasons. In all other instances, pregnancies are aborted after a consultation process, are exempt from punishment, and certified to be carried out for “social reasons”. A termination of a pregnancy is an incisive experience for all those who are involved, and can lead to long-standing feelings of guilt, psychosomatic disorders, or depressive reactions. The Alternative for Germany advocates the respect for life, where the safeguarding of life starts with the embryo. This is in accordance with German jurisdiction. We thus demand that the primary goal of abortion counselling should be concerned with the protection of unborn life. Expectant parents and single women in need should be offered financial and other assistance during and after pregnancy in order to discourage any thoughts of an abortion. Adoption procedures are to be simplified. The AfD opposes all attempts to downplay abortions, government support for abortions, or to declare abortions as a human right.CULTURE, LANGUAGE AND IDENTITY Germany has a rich cultural heritage. German writers, philosophers, musicians, artists, architects, designers and film producers have made significant contributions on an international scale in each of their respective disciplines. Culture also acts as a brace for a new form of political understanding. Identity is primarily shaped by culture and in itself cannot be left to the free play of forces. Therefore, an aware ness needs to be cultivated which recognises, fosters and protects the bond between culture and identity. The AfD believes that the link between education, culture and identity is of paramount importance for the development of society.7.1 Preserve German Culture, Language and Tradition It is one of the primary political goals of the AfD to preserve the great cultural heritage for future generations, and to develop and retain its unique characteristics in an age of globalisation and digitalisation. Germany is also respected for its internationally-renowned theatres and orchestras. The AfD is in favour of declaring culture as a statutory duty of federal and state governments. 7.2 German as Predominant Culture instead of Multiculturalism The AfD is committed to German as the predominant culture. This culture is derived from three sources: firstly, the religious traditions of Christianity; secondly, the scientific and humanistic heritage, whose ancient roots were renewed during the period of Renaissance and the Age of Enlightenment; and thirdly, Roman law, upon which our constitutional state is founded. Together, these traditions are the foundation of our free and democratic society, and they determine daily patterns of social interaction in society, and shape the relationship between the sexes as well as the conduct of parents towards their children. The ideology of multiculturalism is blind to history and puts on a par imported cultural trends with the indigenous culture, thereby degrading the value system of the latter. The AfD views this as a serious threat to social peace and the survival of the nation state as a cultural unit. It is the duty of the government and civil society to confidently protect German cultural identity as the predominant culture.7.3 The German Language as Focal Point of our Identity Our culture is inextricably linked to the German language, which has developed over centuries and which in itself is a reflection of its intellectual history, national identity within central Europe, and German set of basic values, which have all changed over time but have retained a unique core inventory. The bond which language creates amongst people should be maintained and protected. As a central element of German identity, the German language should be declared as the official language of the country and enacted as such in the German Constitution, as is the case in many other countries. In addition, the AfD demands a long-term plan of action to maintain and strengthen the German standard language as well as historically developed regional dialects as an intangible cultural heritage of mankind. The Goethe Institute and other cultural institutions should be involved in promoting German as a spoken and written language worldwide and underscore this with bi-lateral treaties and scholarship programmes. At EU level, the AfD will ensure that German is placed on an equal footing with English and French as the standard form of communication. As to domestic affairs, the AfD is concerned about the trend to replace the German language with English, which is misconceived as a form of “internationalisation”, and about the introduction of elements of “genderised” language. We firmly reject politically correct language guidelines. 7.4 Free Arts and Culture from the Influence of Political Parties The AfD wants to push back the influence of political parties on cultural life, strengthen private, non-profit cultural foundations and civic cultural initiatives, and in general, orientate cultural policy by criteria of professional quality and economic reason instead of political opportunism. The current narrowing of the German culture of remembrance to the time of National Socialism should be opened in favour of a broader understanding of history, which also encompasses the positive, identity-establishing aspects of German history. The AfD holds the position that cultural policy should remain in the jurisdiction of the federal states. It wishes to preserve and nurture the varied cultural landscape and strengthen the efficiency of cultural institutions. 7.5 In Favour of a Modern Media Policy: Abolish Broadcasting Fees The AfD favours a media policy which is based on Germany’s Constitution. Our central concept is that of free communication, which allows anybody to operate communication channels and unrestricted reporting by the media, thereby generating a natural diversity. Whereas this is what we want to facilitate, we equally want to remove restrictions and obstacles. For this reason, the AfD believes that it is necessary to radically reform Germany’s public broadcasting service. Its model of forced financing must be abolished as soon as possible, and transformed into a voluntarily paid service. Current contributors should have the option to partially or completely cancel their subscription via an opt-out process with a fixed deadline. Reception should be on an encryption and password protected basis only, which provides access to voluntary subscribers only. The public broadcasting service will thus be transformed into a citizens’ broadcasting service, solely dependent upon its subscribers, and free of political interference. Broadcasting control has to be adapted accordingly. Its control committees should be elected by the contributors, similarly to parish councils or supervisory boards of stock corporations. Only then will the term “separation of state and public media” be justified. Furthermore, public media will be required to focus on high-quality content, such as quality news coverage, education, arts and culture, and shall only be able to offer entertainment if it is able to generate the necessary income to finance itself. 7.6 Islam and its Tense Relationship with our Value System The AfD pledges its unconditional support to the freedom of faith, worship and conscience. However, the freedom of worship has to take place within the limits of public laws, human rights and our value system. The AfD firmly opposes Islamic practice which is directed against our liberal-democratic constitutional order, our laws, and the Judeo-Christian and humanist foundations of our culture. The legal provisions of the shari’a are incompatible with our legal and value systems. This is well documented by the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam dated the 4th of August 1990, and which is of great importance to Islamic countries. 7.6.1 Islam does not belong to Germany Islam does not belong to Germany. Its expansion and the ever-increasing number of Muslims in the country are viewed by the AfD as a danger to our state, our society, and our values. An Islam which neither respects nor refrains from being in conflict with our legal system, or that even lays claim to power as the only true religion, is incompatible with our legal system and our culture. Many Muslims live as law-abiding and well-integrated citizens amongst us, and are accepted and valued members of our society. However, the AfD demands that an end is put to the formation and increased segregation by parallel Islamic societies relying on courts with shari’a laws. The AfD wishes to curb a trend towards religious radicalisation amongst Muslims, and these turning into violent Salafists or terrorists. 7.6.2 Tolerate Criticism of Islam The criticism of religion, which also applies to Islam, is legitimate within the legal framework, as it is part of the basic right of freedom of opinion. Religious satire and caricatures are protected by the right of freedom of opinion and the freedom of the arts. The AfD does not concur with the view which regards the criticism of Islam as islamophobic or being derogatory7.6.3 End Foreign Financing of Mosques Reports of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution cite several associations whose activities are directed against the liberal constitutional state and its laws, and that these should be banned as extremist organisations. The scope of such associations ranges from those who claim to represent a “legalistic” Islam, but exploit our laws for unconstitutional goals, to Salafism. These organisations are a tangible threat to internal security as well as an obstacle to the integration of Muslims. The AfD demands that anti-constitutional organisations should not be permitted to build and run mosques, as they are prone to spreading doctrines that violate the German Constitution and our legal system, and lead to political and religious radicalisation. Financing of mosques by Islamic countries, foreign financiers, or their intermediaries must be stopped. Islamic countries aim to spread Islam in Germany and extend their power base by building and running mosques. The growing influence of Islamic countries contradicts our liberal constitutional order and the integration of Muslim residents. Imams who want to preach in Germany need to obtain the government’s authorisation. Without exception, they have to pledge themselves to our constitutional order and must preach in German, with the exception of quotes from the Qur‘an. Imams who stand out for anti-constitutional agitation are to be prohibited from preaching and will be deported if legal conditions allow it. Theological chairs for Islam studies at German universities are to be abolished and the positions transferred to the faculty of non-denominational religious studies. The AfD rejects the minaret as a symbol of Islamic supremacy, as well as the muezzin call that proclaims that no god exists beside the Islamic Allah. Minaret and muezzin calls contradict a tolerant coexistence of religions, which the Christian churches of modernity do practice. 7.6.4 No Public Body Status for Islamic Organizations The AfD rejects plans to grant the status of a public body to Islamic organizations, as they do not fulfil the legal preconditions. Islamic organizations strive for the status of a public body with its associated privileges in order to expand their power base. Requirements for this status include a sufficient representation, permanence and respect of the liberal state-church law. The latter demands the acceptance of the freedom of religion, the ideological neutrality of the state, and the equality of religions and confessions.7.6.5 No Full-Body Veiling in Public Spaces The AfD demands the general prohibition of full-body veiling in public spaces and in the public service. The burqa or the niqab create barriers between the wearers of these garments and their surroundings, and thus impede cultural integration and social coexistence. A prohibition is necessary and, according to a judgement of the European Court of Justice, is lawful. Public servants should not wear a headscarf. At schools neither teachers nor students should be allowed to wear headscarves, thereby following the French model. The headscarf as a political-religious symbol of Muslim women’s submission to men negates integration efforts, equal rights for women and girls, and the unimpeded development of the individual.8.1 Research and Teaching in Freedom and Unity The AfD is committed to Humboldt‘s educational ideal. Freedom of research and teaching are essential prerequisites for scientific progress. Therefore, universities must be free to decide the nature and scope of the courses they offer. The scientific community must be protected from rampant bureaucratic regulations and science must be free of ideological constraints. The ethos of science, including the ability to criticise, impartiality towards and respect for other scientists and their achievements is to be strengthened. German is to remain as a teaching language. The integrity of research and teaching is the unique feature of universities and colleges with university status. Therefore, they should have the sole right to confer doctorates and postdoctoral qualifications. 8.1.1 Strengthen Autonomy by Increased Basic Funding Germany has a differentiated higher education system comprising universities and colleges, art and music schools with university status, as well as theological and pedagogical universities. They all fulfil different tasks and goals at a high level. In order to catch up with international leading research and teaching, universities must be properly equipped. Degrees must once again convey clear content and skills, and have a distinct profile. Colleges of education for elementary, primary, and secondary school teaching are to be reintroduced nationwide. Job-related subjects and the dual system of education must be strengthened. Less important subjects need to be retained in order to preserve the diversity of teaching and research. The freedom of research and teaching can only be guaranteed by reliable basic state funding. The AfD therefore demands that government third-party funds, which are often allocated on the basis of political and ideological considerations, be replaced by higher basic funding. 8.1.2 Terminate the Promotion of Gender Research Gender research does not meet the claim of reputable research. Its methods do not fulfil the criteria of science, as its objectives are primarily politically motivated. The federal and state governments should thus no longer provide special funds for gender research. Existing university chairs for gender research should not be filled again, and ongoing gender research projects should not be prolonged. 8.1.3 Reintroduce Diploma and Master Degrees, and State Examinations It was a mistake to change the proven academic system by introducing Bachelor and Master degree courses (known as the Bologna Process). Graduates with a Bachelor degree are frequently not properly qualified for the labour market. Notwithstanding the validity of acquired Bachelor and Master degrees, the AfD urges a return to the proven final degrees of “Diplom” (diploma) and “Magister” (master), as well as the State Examination (“Staatsexamen”) and corresponding regulations. The return to these degree courses will allow the switching between universities without any hitches. We reject centrally planned objectives for student numbers, academic accomplishments, or female quotas. No quotas should also be placed on the number of graduates. 8.1.4 Increase Study Requirements The AfD welcomes the central role of MINT subjects (mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and technology) for the competitiveness and innovative capacity of our country. University entrance examinations should be a requirement for technical, scientific and medical subjects. A steady deterioration in school requirements have led to a situation where the general level for university entrance is no longer ensured. The requirements for students may under no circumstances be adjusted to the lowered level, but must be adjusted to the highest international standard. The AfD therefore demands performance and aptitude related selection processes for different types of colleges. Quality should prevail over quantity. 8.2 Differentiation Strengthens our School System A policy which strives to create a uniform type of school for all by lowering standards of different types of schools to the lowest common denominator leads to a reduction in quality, threatens the future fitness of young people and the compe titiveness of our economy. We fully endorse the principle of performance. Pupils have a right to experience successes and failures within an accessible school system. 8.2.1 Deteriorating Requirements in Standardised Schools Pupils no longer have the basic skills needed for vocational training or study as a result of ever deteriorating scholastic requirements. Pupils also lack the necessary general knowledge required to responsibly exercise civil rights and duties. It is incorrect to persuade parents and juveniles that the only successful education path is one that leads to university entry. A differentiated school system needs to recognise and promote the individual talents and strengths of pupils. 8.2.2 Particular Focus on Knowledge Transfer The educational standards in all types of schools must be aligned to the highest levels found in Germany in order to equip school leavers with the best opportunities in vocational training and studies. The transfer of knowledge in the form of proficiencies, abilities, skills, and learning strategies should remain a central task of schools. We want to ensure that high schools once again focus on curricula, and that lessons are provided by specialist teachers. Competencies should remain a secondary aspect of education. Performance requirements and grading must be comparable nationwide. Admission requirements for secondary schools are to be unified nationwide. The secondary school graduation examination must, once again, be considered as a university entrance examination. 8.2.3 Strengthen Motivation and Discipline Motivation and discipline are prerequisites for successful knowledge transfer. Parents are primarily responsible for teaching these skills to pupils. The appropriate behaviour of pupils can only be enforced if the teachers have appropriate measures at their disposal, and enforcement thereof is not constantly questioned. Truancy, apathetic mentality, lack of discipline, bullying and violence at school cannot be tolerated and must be punished appropriately and with involvement of the guardians. The freedom to choose between half-day and full-day classes must be retained. 8.2.4 Prohibit Political and Ideological Indoctrination in Schools The classroom must not be a place for political indoctrination. Frequently, German schools do not support pupils in forming their own opinion, but promote the uncritical adoption of ideological guidelines. However, school education should contribute to the development of future citizens, who can think and act independently. We reject the one-sided emphasis on homosexuality and trans-sexuality in classrooms, as well as the ideological influence of gender mainstreaming. The picture of the traditional family must not be destroyed. Our children should not be the plaything to the sexual orientation of a noisy minority at school. 8.2.5 Strengthen and Maintain Vocational Training Dual vocational training in companies and state vocational schools is a model of success. However, the quest for more and more high school and university graduates, and insufficient knowledge of upper and intermediary secondary school-leavers, jeopardise the future of formal job training. Many apprenticeship positions cannot be filled due to a lack of qualified applicants. Technical colleges and master schools must be maintained and strengthened as pillars of vocational training and a system of lifelong learning. 8.2.6 Preserve Special Schools – No Inclusion at All Costs The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) does not question our proven system of schools specialising in the care and support of the disabled. Demands to guarantee disabled children participation in the public school system have already been comprehensively and successfully fulfilled. Inclusion at all costs is a highly ideological concept, which results in much higher costs. It is also to the disadvantage of both disabled and non-disabled pupils, and is detrimental to the learning success of these two groups. The AfD supports the continued existence of special schools and schools for children with learning difficulties. It is the right of parents to send their children to these schools. 8.2.7 Close Qur’an Schools and Integrate Islamic Studies in Ethics Education In schools offering Islamic studies, the lessons to Muslim pupils have to be given in German only. Teachers who teach Islamic studies must be educated at German universities by academics who strictly abide by the principles of the German Constitution, and who are not under the influence of Islamic associations. As long as Islam has not been fundamentally reformed, we demand that Islamic qur’an schools should be closed with immediate effect, as it is likely that uncontrolled radical and unconstitutional indoctrination takes place there. 8.2.8 No Special Rights for Muslim Pupils Special rights for Muslim pupils cannot be justified. Without exception, Muslim pupils have to participate in sports, school trips, and other events mandatory for all students. Islamic pupils and their parents have to unreservedly respect and accept female teachers as representatives of our values and our state system. 8.3 No Gender Mainstreaming and Early Sexualisation Gender ideology, early sexualisation, governmental funding of gender studies, quota systems and the deprivation of the German language with gender-conforming words have to be terminated. Equal rights should once again be regarded as equal opportunities. Many views on gender mainstreaming contradict the results of science, developmental psychology, and everyday experience. Therefore, we oppose any government funding of gender studies. Gender ideology denies or marginalises natural differences between the sexes, denies traditional values, and specific roles within the family. The classical understanding of the roles of males and females is systematically adjusted by government-sponsored re-education programmes in nursery schools and schools. The AfD rejects gender education as an intervention in the natural development of children, and in parents‘ rights to educate their children, which in turn is guaranteed by the German Constitution. Likewise, the AfD demands that the early sexualisation of children in nursery schools and schools is prohibited, as children should not be unsettled about their sexual identity. 8.3.1 No Gender-Neutral Transformation of the German Language Currently, the German language is being transformed and redesigned to nullify gender differences in everyday speech by means of artificial and absurd constructions. The AfD rejects coined gender-neutral terms as a violation of the naturally-developed culture and traditions of our language. 8.3.2 Gender Quotas are Unproductive and Unfair The AfD rejects gender quotas in education or at places of work, since quotas are detrimental to performance, are unjust, and often create renewed and new discrimination. The AfD believes that quotas are not an appropriate means to accomplish gender equality between men and women. We also reject the establishment of special female courses at universities. Instead, the AfD strongly emphasises the constitutionally guaranteed equality of men and women in the sense of equal opportunities. However, we reject a gender equality policy with regard to equality of results.IMMIGRATION, INTEGRATION AND ASYLUM The topics of asylum and immigration are characterised by an ideologically-biased climate of political correctness, accompanied by banned terms and newspeak. Non-compliance leads to social stigmatisation, even to job-related discrimination. Such treatment of non-conformist opinions has been a characteristic of totalitarian countries, but not of free democratic societies. Negative developments in the field of asylum and immigration are not addressed in order to prevent a turnaround in public opinion. At the same time, the ruling German political parties have tried to disguise the complete failure of their policies on asylum and immigration of recent years. An open discussion is prevented in this way. This approach has led to unjustified wholesale suspicions of the majority of law-abiding, integrated immigrants and asylum-seekers. For this reason, we demand the return of freedom of speech for free citizens. Nobody should be afraid of voicing an opinion on this controversial topic. The fundamental right of freedom of speech must be re-established when dealing with this policy area. In view of its geographic location, its history, its people and its dense population, Germany is by no means a classic immigration country, least of all a target of mass migration as seen in 2015. In spite of this, migration into Germany has occurred for decades. Germany has turned into an immigration country without any legal framework. Canada and Australia set good examples of how these countries manage immigration with social and employment considerations in mind. The German “maverick approach”, however, has promoted immigration into the German social security systems and the low-wage sector, but not into the qualified job market. We want to change this: We demand a paradigm shift regarding 1) the influx of asylum seekers, 2) the way how the free movement of people is handled inside the EU, 3) the immigration of skilled labour from third countries, and 4) the integration of immigrants belonging to these three categories.9.1 No Irregular Immigration via Asylum Laws 9.1.1 In Need of a Paradigm Shift in Asylum Immigration Currently, a mass migration of historical dimension is challenging Europe. In view of the population explosion, violent and religious conflicts, and harsh climatic conditions in many countries, in particular on the African continent and in the Middle East, we are merely experiencing the beginning of a gigantic mass migration towards European countries. For this reason, current German and European asylum and refugee policies cannot be continued as in the past. The ill-fitting term “refugee” used for all the people who enter Germany irregularly with the aim to stay here forever, is characteristic of this misguided policy. It is necessary to make a distinction between political refugees and people fleeing from war on the one hand, and irregular migrants on the other. It is the AfD’s view that true refugees should be granted shelter as long as there is war in the countries of origin. Irregular migrants, who are not persecuted, have no right to claim protection, contrary to refugees. Once the reasons for fleeing, such as an end to wars, or political and religious persecution, no longer applies, shall residence permits of refugees be terminated. These refugees need to leave Germany. Germany and its EU partner countries should provide incentives for those who have to leave. It is in the interest of domestic and foreign peace if refugees return to their home countries and contribute to the political, economic and social reconstruction of these countries. Their return should be supported by an international reconstruction programme. The traditional policy of liberally granting asylum in spite of an acknowledgement of massive misuse of the system, has resulted in a rapid and irresistible settlement of Europe, in particular of Germany, by people from diverse cultures and geographical regions. This policy is also responsible for the many migrants drowning in the Mediterranean Sea. The AfD wishes to prevent these cynically accepted consequences of misguided humanitarianism. We also want to prevent the looming risk of social and religious turmoil and the creeping extinction of European cultures. The Common EU Asylum Policy has failed as a result of the breach of the Dublin Agreement by southern EU countries, as well as the failure of the German government. Therefore, we advocate the complete closure of external EU borders. We demand that the following options are offered to refugees leaving their respective countries due to political and other reasons: Shelter and asylum centres are to be established in safe countries in the regions where migration originates from, such as Northern Africa. Such shelters are to be operated under UN and EU mandates. People seeking protection are expected to claim asylum only in those centres. People claiming asylum in Germany and in the EU are to be urged to return to those centres without exception. If such centres cannot be set up within a reasonable time frame, Germany will establish such centres in safe countries according to local standards and local basic care. Countries need to be identified that are willing to allow the establishment of such centres on embassy territory, or other precincts on a contractual basis, similar to the Australian model. These regional centres will host outposts of the German Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) and the administrative jurisdiction, which have sole responsibility to handle asylum cases. Asylum seekers from these regions who enter Germany to apply for asylum are to be returned to the mentioned centres in their home regions, where their cases will be dealt with. If they are entitled to shelter or asylum, they shall be safely transferred to Germany. Strict controls are to be established at German border checkpoints at which irregular immigration occurs, in order to prevent illegal border crossings. As long as there is worldwide migration into Germany, and as long as the external EU borders are not effec-tively controlled, we demand strict German border control measures to prevent an uncontrolled influx of immigrants. This includes measures to safeguard the “green border”. The AfD will substitute the individual right to asylum by a constitutional law, which is to provide an institutional guarantee. We demand that the Geneva Convention of 1951 and other outdated supra-national and international agreements be adapted to present-day conditions of global mass migration. The German Asylum Laws may no longer be misused as a vehicle for mass migration. Since the end of 2014, the decision-makers of the German Federal Office for Migration and Refugees have been forced to generally acknowledge whole ethnic groups instead of dealing with migrants on a case by case basis. Consequently, there has been no verification of identity, country of origin, or nationality. This has led to widespread malpractices. These decision-makers must once again be free of directives and able to make their own independent decisions, which was the case until 2002. This is the only way to prevent political influence on the asylum quota. Conditions in shelters located in neighbouring countries of war-torn regions must be upgraded to a level which prevents further migration. Far more people could be supported in these shelters with a fraction of the funds spent on the handling of irregular migration within Germany, whilst concurrently reducing the pressure on emigration. 9.1.2 Repatriation – End Misguided Incentives and False Tolerance For decades, people with no right to asylum have had one key incentive for immigration into the German welfare system: Germany‘s failure to implement the repatriation of foreign nationals who are not entitled to stay. Repatriation is sabotaged in many ways. The repatriates themselves, German supporters, and governments of their home countries are to be blamed. There are campaigns bythe immigration lobby and the media to create ever new reasons for repatriates to stay. State governments do not comply with federal repatriation laws and delay executions, thereby rendering the system ineffective. The AfD wants to put an end to this non-compliance with the rule of law. We demand that the Law on Repatriation is enhanced, simplified and consistently applied. If this does not happen, federal institutions need to intervene immediately. Immigration authorities should be able to rely on the unconditional support of political institutions. All refused asylum seekers not legally entitled to protection will have to be forced to leave Germany immediately, if they do not do so voluntarily. Development aid and visa policy should be used as incentives to foster the willingness of foreign governments to co-operate in the repatriation of their nationals. Foreigners who are obliged to leave the country under an enforceable decision must not be given any incentives to stay. This includes the permanent reduction of their social aid to a legally permissible minimum of benefits in kind. Obstructions to obtain a passport required for repatriation and the deception of authorities are to be sanctioned. We want to abolish long-standing customary regulations on the right to residence, as they contradict repatriation measures and reward a refusal to leave. Voluntary departure is preferable to deportation. Especially those who applied for asylum out of mere economic reasons can be encouraged to leave voluntarily, if necessary by granting a once-off start-up aid. The AfD is committed to avoiding economic causes of migration and flight, even if this is disadvantageous to Western economies in the short term. Examples include the stop of exports of highly subsidised agricultural goods to Africa, as they ruin local markets and rob the population of their livelihoods. The same applies to the exports of arms, second-hand clothes, toxic and other waste products, as well as fishing by EU countries off African coasts. 9.2 Immigration from Other EU Countries The European right to freedom of movement has led to massive migration from poorer EU countries to the richer ones, especially to Germany, for the sole purpose of obtaining social aid. The German legislation provides certain restrictions on obtaining social aid consistent with the Free Movement Directive, but these are far from being sufficient to prevent the misuse of the generous German welfare system. In practice, there are numerous ways to circumvent or undermine these fragile legal restrictions. The AfD therefore calls for a comprehensive and thorough realignment of EU legislation to regain a national course of action and to put an end to widespread misuse of rights related to the Free Movement Directive. If this should not be effective, we demand a restriction of free movement within the EU, allowing the host country to control the immigration of job-seekers and their family members. A primary demand of the AfD is to allow all EU countries to place a restriction on the entitlement to tax-funded social benefits and limiting these to those EU citizens and their family members who have contributed to social security systems for a minimum of four years of employment without receiving state subsidies. Direct immigration into social systems of host countries has to be stopped. Conflicting EU legislation has to be changed accordingly. 9.3 Control Immigration from Non-EU Countries We advocate moderate legal immigration based on qualitative criteria where there is irrefutable demand, which can neither be satisfied from domestic resources, nor by EU immigration. The interests of Germany as a social, economic and cultural nation are paramount. We welcome highly-skilled immigrants with a distinct willingness to integrate. We seek to learn and to benefit from the long-standing experience gained by other Western countries in this regard. This is to be strictly separated from an uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers which do not benefit Germany’s economy and harm German society. Our country’s supply of skilled workers must primarily be covered by the full development of domestic labour resources. This includes comprehensive basic and advanced training, the integration of millions of unemployed into the workforce, and putting an end to the discrimination of older employees and single parents. Legal immigration from other EU countries can also contribute to growing the skilled labour force. Additionally, the ongoing emigration of highly-qualified nationals has to be reduced, and the return of those who have already emigrated is to be encouraged. Recruitment from third countries should only be sought after all other means of obtaining and qualifying a workforce have been exhausted. However, controlled immigration from third countries is no solution of the demographic crisis. Uncontrolled and predominantly illegal immigration of unqualified workers, who misuse the application for asylum, does not strengthen the potential of a skilled workforce. Germany is competing with other high-technology countries in winning truly skilled immigrants. The legal instruments used in this context have to be revised thoroughly. The Canadian model of immigration, adapted to the specific needs of Germany, could serve as an example. It should primarily be applied to prospective immigrants from abroad. Only in exceptional cases should it be open to foreigners already living in Germany without a permanent residence permit, for example to foreign students from third countries who have gained an academic degree in Germany. In order to make controlled immigration a success, the ability to integrate, professional qualifications, and a job offer prior to entering Germany are of crucial importance. The decision on the quality and quantity of immigration is a prime prerogative of any sovereign state, and should apply unconditionally to Germany as well.9.4 Integration is more than just Learning the German Language The concept of a multi-cultural society has failed. In order to live in peace with immigrants in the future, integration is indispensible. It is the only way to stop the further advance of counter-societies and parallel societies in our country. Successful integration requires that immigrants of all ages acquire a sufficient command of oral and written German, respect and endorse our legal and social systems, and earn their own living after a reasonable period of time. Assimilation as the most advanced form of integration is worth striving for, yet, it cannot be enforced. Each immigrant has an obligation to integrate. He has to adapt to his new host country, not the other way around. The continuing influx of people with extremely poor integration prospects exacerbates existing problems, and is therefore irresponsible. Good prospects of integration must be made a future condition to permanent residence in the country. Permanent residence requires successful integration. Anyone who refuses to integrate has to be sanctioned and will finally lose his right of residence. The high standard of our educational system is the main reason for Germany’s status as a leading economy. These standards on educational and professional requirements may not be lowered as a pretext to better integration. 9.5 Create Transparency in the Costs of Immigration Immigration into the social system has become commonplace, as shown by the judicial and social realities of all immigrant communities. Preventative measures have proven to be ineffective, as they are being suspended by legal judgements, limited by EU legislation, or are susceptible to all-out fraud. Immigrants with low qualifications primarily enter the country by abusively applying for asylum, and then have to rely on tax-funded social aid. Better qualified immigrants, however, prefer countries with a lower rate of taxation than Germany. Each single asylum seeker immigrates into the social system, as he is entitled to benefits as soon as he crosses the border. After approval of asylum, the same applies to joining family members. The AfD demands an end to unlimited family reunions for approved asylum seekers, as this opens the door to a direct and permanent influx of new migrants into the social security systems. The costs of mass immigration are not made transparent, estimates range up to several hundred billion Euro. It is not sufficient to simply multiply the number of welfare recipients with the standard rate. In addition, there are huge hidden costs for care and attendance of refugees on all levels of administration. Following mass immigration, a cartel-like migration industry has been established, arbitrarily setting the prices in many places. There is no comprehensive analysis or accounting of costs, as this is not desired by policymakers in the German federal and state governments. The AfD demands a fundamental reorganisation of the funding for immigration. The costs have to be published in full, and on all levels of administration. The cost-effective use of taxpayers’ money has also to be strictly ensured in the immigration sector. The AfD firmly opposes the introduction of a solidarity tax for the benefit of refugees. The costs of immigration include both short and longterm expenses. The nationality of welfare recipients is not itemised in detail and is kept confidential. This means that the number of approved asylum seekers who permanently remain within the welfare system is not disclosed, and the success or failure of integration cannot be evaluated. The AfD demands full transparency of this issue. 9.6 No Disguising and Hiding of Immigrant Crime Millions of people from other cultures, who lack the skills and capabilities required for integration, are lured to Germany under false pretences. They have severed all ties with their homelands. Unfulfilled hopes of prosperity pose the risk that many of them will drift into crime. In the wake of uncontrolled mass immigration there is a rise in crime figures. The absence of border controls along the frontiers with some Eastern EU member states has a similar effect. However, for reasons of political expediency, statistics on criminals and suspects and their asylum or immigration histories are either not compiled, distorted, or kept secret. Some of the problems caused by the influx of asylum seekers are being disguised or downplayed by government agencies and the media. As a result, one of the aims of the AfD is to reform criminal statistics. Immigration-related crime is extremely difficult to combat – embedded, as it is, in family, clan and cultural structures, and aided by language barriers. The current judicial state of affairs which makes it virtually impossible to terminate the right of residence of these offenders, is something that must be changed. We want to create the legal mechanisms to withdraw the right of residence of criminals more quickly and more easily. This is an effective means of combating immigrant crime. The AfD demands that the protection of citizens against immigrant crime receives top priority. This will require a change of system away from the shackles placed upon security authorities by national and EU regulations towards a new system of cooperation between immigration authorities, law enforcement agencies, and criminal prosecution, who together are conceived to be efficient public sector protection agencies. These must have the legal obligation and the capacity to protect citizens as effectively as possible against immigrant crime and, equally, to prevent legal abuses and the abuse of asylum laws. This includes abandonment of EU directives on asylum and immigration, which have resulted in disempowered national immigration authorities and massive growth in the number of claims by immigrants.9.7 Naturalisation – The Final Act in the Process of Integration The awarding of German citizenship is the final act in a successful process of integration, not the starting point. The AfD believes that German citizenship is inseparably linked to our language and culture. German citizenship has undergone a creeping loss of significance in recent years. There are scenarios where children are given German citizenship automatically, although neither of their parents is German. At the same time, restrictions on dual citizenship have been relaxed. Dual nationality, i.e. obtaining German citizenship whilst retaining or acquiring citizenship of another country, is rejected by the AfD in principle, although this does not mean that justified exceptions will not occur. Moreover, the requirements for naturalisation must be increased significantly. German citizenship should only be granted to immigrants who have come of age. This will rule out the automatic granting of German citizenship to children of foreign parents, as this has been a source of considerable abuse. Such children should only receive German citizenship where at least one parent is already a German citizen. For this reason we want to scrap citizenship by birth from the statute book.10.1 Free Competition Underpins our Prosperity Free market competition produces the best economic results. The unsubsidised supply of goods and services, which is most beneficial to buyers and sellers alike, is always set to win the day. Therefore, the AfD contends that the stronger the competition, and the lower the ratio of government expenditures to gross national product (state spending ratio), the better it is for everyone. Indeed, competition gives people the freedom to develop, to grow and to act self-reliant, to acquire private ownership of goods and means of production, to enter into contracts under their own responsibility for their own benefit and for the common good, to choose between different suppliers, products, services or jobs, and to take advantage of profitable opportunities, but also to take responsibility for potential failure. Basic requirements for all business competition comprise equal and clear rules for everyone engaged in the markets – regardless of size or legal form – as well as legal certainty guaranteed by the state. State intervention which may be necessary – for example, to prevent monopolies and to counteract market failures – should be limited to the minimum, and should be predictable to domestic and foreign investors. Making this happen is the task of competition policy. 10.2 Social Market Economy instead of State-Directed Economy Based upon our ideas on the role of the state, we are calling for a business and economic ethos along the lines of the social market economy developed by Walter Eucken, Alfred Müller-Armack and Wilhelm Röpke, and implemented by Ludwig Erhard. Key principles are ownership, personal responsibility and free pricing. Protection of private ownership is an indispensable part of it, as are open markets, freedom of contract and free competition with appropriate competition policy and antitrust control. Any form of state-directed economy will sooner or later end in misallocation and corruption. And so, we share the opinion of the founders of the social market economy that the economy is always a means to an end, never an end in itself. In our view, the biggest burdens currently imposed on the proper functioning of the social market economy are the unprecedented Euro bailout policy pursued by countries within the Euro zone, and the manipulation of the monetary policy by the European Central Bank. Here, fundamental market mechanisms such as the relationship between savings and investment are being undermined, liability principles are violated, and the relationship between creditors and debtors is seriously impaired. 10.3 Realign International Economic Policy Likewise to the domestic economy, the AfD wants to base foreign trade on market-based economic principles. International trade relations should preferably be multi-lateral in nature and based upon treaties with the World Trade Organisation. Trade agreements must never undermine German safety standards. The market-based principle of equal treatment must be upheld. Domestic and foreign companies must be put on an identical legal footing. Our citizens must remain in sovereign control of our state, and no restrictions may be placed upon the regulatory authority of Parliament. 10.4 Maintain High Standards in Trade Agreements International trade is the foundation of our prosperity and peaceful coexistence. We regard economic sanctions as fundamentally wrong. We want to lower trade barriers in Europe and across the world. Foreign trade and economic initiatives of overriding importance must take account of German sovereignty. Therefore, the AfD is in favour of international trade agreements which respect the principle of equal treatment and German industrial, social and environmental standards. Temporary exemptions are appropriate only for those economies that have not yet moved beyond the level of developing countries. Negotiations of a multilateral nature and within intergovernmental organisations must be conducted transparently, and all treaties are to be disclosed. Any transfer of sovereignty or delegation of state powers to special arbitration courts under free trade agreements should be rejected out of hand. While arbitration bodies are proven tools in business and economy, the relationship between the national legal system and arbitration courts must be set out in trade agreements in such a way that arbitration court rulings can always be appealed in the ordinary national courts upon request of the defendant. Therefore, the AfD in principle rejects any trade agreements which are negotiated in a non-transparent, non-public manner and without the involvement of the German Federal Parliament, worded without balancing the interests of the parties concerned, and undermining domestic law in an unacceptable manner. For these reasons, we reject TTIP, TISA and CETA. In any event, all treaties and agreements which exceed mere trade agreements by incorporating investment protection rules, or are aimed at harmonisation of regulations, must remain subject to national powers of authority. Only the involvement of the German Federal Parliament can ensure adequate democratic legitimacy. 10.5 Reduce Bureaucracy The AfD calls for an economic framework which attracts investment and promotes innovation. Our aim is to deregulate and reduce bureaucracy on a broad level. We are concerned about excessive and inefficient regulations. We also aim to reinvigorate the entrepreneurial spirit and to support entrepreneurs by scrapping bureaucratic obstacles. Less bureaucracy shall not be limited to a better definition of regulations, but shall also include a review to determine which existing rules will still be required in the future. 10.6 Promote Germany as a Beacon of Technology The AfD aims to promote Germany as a beacon of technology by way of policies which support innovation and technology. Scientific findings should be converted into marketable products more easily. We equally want to promote entrepreneurship. Self-employment should once again be a realistic goal for young people. However, it should not be misused as a tool of employment policy in order to brush up unemployment statistics. 10.7 Reduce and Limit State Subsidies We want to rigorously prune the maze of subsidies distributed by the EU, the German federal government, the federal states, local authorities, and special funds, after an assessment of their effectiveness and efficiency. If subsidies are economically warranted on a case-by-case basis, their duration will have to be limited. Beyond services to the public, the government shall only be allowed to carry out business activities in exceptional cases. The democratically authorised institutions of each administrative level shall exercise complete control of the economic activities pursued by public authorities. 10.8 No Privatisation without Citizen Approval Referenda will be held at each administrative level to decide upon planned privatisations, in particular if public services, public housing and public real estate are under discussion. The AfD rejects confidential privatisation agreements. 10.9 Small and Medium-Sized Companies are the Foundation of our Economic Strength Our policy for small and medium enterprises (SME) is a regulatory policy. We believe that the same rules should apply to all - whether large or small - and in each sector of the economy. Our support of SMEs includes a new taxation policy, as well as a reduction of bureaucracy and the termination of over-regulation. Costs are involved to comply with each regulation, and this affects small and medium-sized enterprises more than large corporations.We aim to significantly reduce and simplify the collection of statistics, the appointment of company officers, operational safety requirements, and minimum wages. Last, but not least, we will focus on two conditions of business establishment, namely public safety and improved infrastructure. Our goal is lean, but strong government. 10.10 Digitalisation as an Opportunity and a Challenge Digitalisation has become a crucial element of modern societies. It is present in nearly all spheres of life, assumes control tasks in standardised processes, and adds mobility to communication. In this regard, we shall pay special attention to data protection, and despite of contrary efforts, we want to extend privacy regulations to all identifiable personal information. Freedom of expression and personality development require strict data protection. The AfD advocates free access to WIFI in public facilities (e.g. libraries). 10.10.1 Open Source Software and Secure Hardware All levels of public administration deal with sensitive data of the population. Usually, the administration uses computers with operating systems and software produced by foreign manufacturers. Securityupdates allow the manufacturers to access these computers at any time. The users have no opportunity of checking the updates. The access options are not transparent and can be misused by cyber criminals or intelligence services. Attack vectors for cyber warfare thus become more diverse. Therefore, the AfD demands that at least the public administration in Germany uses operating systems and applications based on open source software in order to ensure in advance that no unauthorised backdoor access is possible. For security reasons, the hardware for administration has to be procured centrally and checked for manipulations. Checked hardware components assembled in Germany will also increase safety requirements. 10.10.2 Secure Communication as a Location Advantage and Civil Right In Germany, it is not only government agencies that primarily use software being produced in foreign countries, but it is also prevalent across industry. An unintended leak of information is not only possible, but likely to happen. The call for national software development can turn into an economic advantage for all German enterprises, who lose billions of Euro through industrial espionage each year. End-to-end encryption must not be prohibited or impeded in any other form. The AfD regards secure communication to be a civil right. 10.10.3 Digitalise German Literature in Germany Germany has to assume the important task of digitalising German literature. This is more than a technical process and needs a professional approach, like historical artefacts handled in a museum. This task requires experts in German language and literature. Legislation has to be passed which states that no royalties shall be paid to foreign enterprises for reading digitalised German literature. 10.11 Modernise and Strengthen Consumer Protection Consumer protection has to be improved and adapted to rapidly changing technical and economic conditions. Information is the key to greater transparency, which in turn ensures liability and control. This requires strengthening consumer protection institutions such as the German “Stiftung Warentest” (independent, non-profit German consumer organization conducting independent tests on products and services) and other consumer associations. Competencies relating to consumer protection, which have been transferred to the European Union, must be checked for their adherence to the principle of subsidiarity and returned to national control, where appropriate. European or international harmonisation of standards must not weaken the achieved levels of protection. 10.11.1 Improve Food Labelling Food marketed on a large scale in Germany has to be labelled better and more clearly than has hitherto been the case, by way of precise information on origin, ingredients, and quality. Chemically enriched functional food and food supplements have to be tested in compliance with pharmaceutical standards. Their health safety is to be confirmed in long-term studies. 10.11.2 Durable Products instead of Planned Obsolescence Manufacturers attempt to artificially reduce the durability of their products to the customer‘s detriment (planned obsolescence). This has to be countered by performing independent product testing and prompt publication of results. We demand that such tests are performed frequently and regularly. 10.11.3 Test Textiles and Children’s Toys for Harmful Substances Goods which may contain potentially harmful substances have to be subjected to strict tests before they may be introduced into the German market. In particular, this applies to imported textiles and children‘s toys. Children‘s toys, and utensils produced for children, must be free of plastics softeners and other harmful substances. In such cases, as with other product groups, conformity marks like the CE certification label may be used only after neutral third-party inspection. 10.11.4 Modernise and Improve Water Treatment Water is indispensable, and increasingly contaminated with pollutants. Apart from nitrates, more and more medical residues, nanoparticles, plastic fibres, and drug residues are found in sewage. Water analysis and treatment to produce clean drinking water must meet these new challenges. Treatment of water has to be modernised and improved. The introduction of pollutants into the water cycle must be reduced in order to prevent water pollution, so that, in future, drinking water does not become a health hazard for consumers. We will support municipal and decentralised public water utilities. We are opposed to the privatisation and subsequent commercialisation of the basic supply of drinking water.FINANCES AND TAXES We want to reform Germany. This is not possible without a comprehensive reform of tax laws. We advocate a simpler and fairer taxation system, which primarily reduces the tax burden of middle and low-income earners.11.1 AfD Tax Bracket Model for Fair Taxes We propose a changed income taxation model with a few fixed rates and a considerably higher personal tax allow-ance. The tax allowance shall be adapted to the income exempted from execution. The current tax schedule creates an excessive tax burden for middle-income earners, and contains hidden tax increases as a result of the so-called cold tax progression. We want to remove the cold tax progression by an indexation of the tax bracket. The indexation takes into consideration the personal tax allowance, the tax rates, and the tax-deductible allowances to avoid any creeping tax increases. The AfD is in favour of a neutral taxation, irrespective of the legal form of a company. Complex company structures created primarily for tax reasons, and which involve additional work for enterprises and authorities alike, will become obsolete. Profits from entrepreneurial activities of shareholders and individual entrepreneurs alike must be subject to an identical tax rate across all levels of government and independent of the legal form of companies. 11.2 Upper Limits for Taxes and Duties We want to limit the power of the state over the citizen. To this end, duties of the state should be reduced, as well as state access to the incomes and assets of its citizens. The AfD does not want to burden its citizens with more taxes and duties. Analogue to the German debt ceiling, we want a mandatory ceiling on taxation and duties to be incorporated in the German Constitution. This will define the maximum permissible tax rate as a percentage of the gross domestic product. Taxes and duties shall not be increased arbitrarily in the future. Tax increases and new taxes shall only be allowed if they remain below the ceiling for taxes and duties. 11.3 Introduce a Split Tax for Families Parents who elect to have children and raise them face considerable employment and career disadvantages. Moreover, the burden of increased cost of living compared to couples without children, is not taken into account adequately in the present tax system. Analogue to the provisions on the taxation of married couples (splitting the difference in spousal income) it is proposed to consider the complete family as an acquisition community, whereby the sum of the earnings generated by all members of the family is divided by the number of family members. Each part is taxed individually. The sum of the partial taxes determines the complete tax bill (family tax splitting). This philosophy is justified by the fact that children will become the later tax payers, and who have to carry the communal burden of the state. 11.4 Abolish Wealth and Inheritance Taxes, Check Trade Taxes The AfD is in favour of reforming the financing of local authorities (municipalities). As part of the reforms, a review of the trade tax has to be carried out as it contains profit-unrelated components in its assessment base. Instead of the trade tax, the municipalities should be offered access to other sources of tax revenue. The tax arrangement must correspond to the principle of self-government, which implies that municipalities are provided with fundamental rights to regulate the item of taxation and the tax levy. The AfD wants to abolish both the wealth tax, which is currently not levied, as well as the inheritance tax. Both are taxes on non-income values, i.e. they are collected independently of the economic capacity of the tax payer. They tax assets which typically have been generated from taxed income. Whilst the administrative effort of collecting these taxes is excessively high, revenue is rather marginal. In addition, inheritance tax is particularly detrimental to the owners of small and medium-sized businesses, and sets wrong incentives with regard to sustainable management of earned wealth transferred to the next generation. In case of inheritance, this tax may force the divestment or discontinuation of enterprises. Moreover, different forms of wealth cannot be assessed with legal certainty. 11.5 Harmonise Sales Tax Rates The AfD intends to harmonise sales tax rates of the German fiscal law. Sales tax exemptions and reductions should only be considered in the context of basic necessities. The AfD wishes to extend the sales tax option to small enterprises. 11.6 Maintain Competition amongst National Taxation Systems The AfD intends to maintain the national tax collection authority and advocates competition between national systems of taxation.The AfD vigorously opposes an independent tax collection authority for the European Union. 11.7 Restore Bank Secrecy and Secrecy in Tax Matters The political parties who have been in power in Germany for decades have virtually abolished banking confidentiality and secrecy in tax matters. The option to access details of private accounts is open to public authorities. The number of account access requests filed by fiscal authorities has increased dramatically. Citizens must not be turned into completely transparent subjects. Programmes of data exchange like FATCA and Swift should not be misused as instruments to control citizens. Moreover, the aforementioned exchange of tax-relevant data tends to erode the principle of secrecy in tax matters. Tax-relevant data of German citizens are sensitive by nature and should be treated confidentially by govern-ment authorities, and not shared with other institutions or foreign governments. The AfD is therefore in favour of reinstating banking and tax confidentiality. 11.8 Promote Federalism and Self-Sufficiency The AfD favours autonomous and strong regional authorities. We intend to facilitate regional and local self-administration, adhering to the principle of subsidiarity, in order to cultivate regional peculiarities and characteristics. Contrary to France, Germany always used to be a federal state. We intend to put more emphasis on federalism. The Fiscal Equalisation Scheme is to be revised in a way that those federal states receiving aid are not better off after fiscal equalisation than those that make a contribution. The AfD is committed to restructuring the financial relations between the German federal government and the German federal states in order to prevent squabbles of competence and to install clear-cut responsibilities. The Federal government, federal states and local authorities need their own sources of income, by way of which they can fund their activities by themselves. A clear allocation of duties should facilitate a healthy competition between the federal states. We call for self-sufficient German federal states and local authorities, each of which should also legally be able to go into insolvency. As is the case between European states, we advocate a non-bailout clause in order to prohibit any possible rescue programme by the federal government aimed at assisting heavily-indebted local authorities or German federal states. 11.9 Systematically Repay National Debt The AfD aims to return to balanced national budgets. The AfD strives for a gradual reduction of public debt, which has gotten out of hand. Future generations should not be burdened by the consequences of a debt policy, which hitherto was rather short-sighted. In order to achieve this aim, we have to systematically reduce public debt, especially to prepare for higher interest payments in the face of generally rising interest rates. The current low interest rates threaten the pension provisions of a major part of the population, and can therefore not be upheld forever. 11.10 Retain the Unrestricted Use of Cash The use of cash is a part of civil liberties. Hence, we are committed to preserve the unrestricted use of cash as a legal tender, contrary to the intentions of the German federal government, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European Central Bank (ECB) and a number of EU member states. A state which only allows cashless payments implies that its citizens could be involved in mafia-like money laundering, red-light crime, or might foster terrorist intentions. These controls are inconsistent with a constitutional state based on freedom and liberal principles. Electronic money (e-cash) will make citizens and business alike dependent on data processing systems and payment transactions which are infallible. Where money only exists in electronic form, it can simply be erased in times of crisis, or temporarily blocked, or not assigned, as in the case of a successful cyber attack. The underlying core problem is the over-indebtedness of states, which have been caused by politicians. The abolition of cash would severely restrict its function as an inviolable repository of value. It opens the door to hit-andrun style confiscation of all financial assets and the denial of possible counter-measures by resorting to cash. Bond and life insurance owners can only evade the effects of gradual dispossession caused by negative interest rates by reallocating funds into more risky investments. A ban on cash would imply that all payment transactions can only be carried out electronically. This would allow government and banks to monitor and totally control all money flows and economic activities, of each financial transaction of its citizens, and even their whereabouts. The transparent bank customer would turn into the transparent human being, which would allow total control over the private and most intimate aspects of life. This level of control, reminiscent of totalitarian states, would radically change public life. Each financial transaction between citizens would be become transparent, and measures of evasion to safeguard the remaining privacy would presumably be countered by repressive sanctions under the pretext of crime prevention. 11.11 Review the Monetary System, Repatriate Gold Reserves Our concern also applies to the monetary system itself. The central banks adhere to a policy of zero interest, which is artificial, and based on interventions. They will probably continue with this policy and even charge negative interest rates. Such drastic intervention into the financial ownership and liberties of our citizens will eventually lead to a further gain in power of the government and the financial sector, both of which is not desirable. If we are concerned about our money, we will have to consider if fundamental reforms of the monetary system and the cartel of central and commercial credit banks is required. The gold reserves of the German Federal Reserve Bank (“Bundesbank”) should be repatriated and stored in Germany only in order to keep all options open for Germany once a democratic decision is made in favour of a stable monetary system.12.1 German Climate Protection Policy: End Political Fallacies, Protect the Environment Climate changes have occurred as long as the earth exists. The “German Climate Protection Policy” is based on hypothetical climate models, which in turn are based on computer-generated simulations of the IPCC (International Panel on Climate Change). Carbon dioxide (CO?), however, is not a harmful substance, but part and parcel of life. The IPCC attempts to prove a correlation between anthropogenic CO? emissions and global warming that will result in catastrophic consequences for mankind. This claim is based on computer models that, however, are not backed by quantitative data and measured observations. Ever since the earth has had an atmosphere, cold and warm periods have alternated. Today we live in a warm period with temperatures similar to those during the Middle Ages and the Roman warm period. The IPCC models cannot explain these climate changes. During the 20th century, the global mean temperature rose by about 0.8 °C. Contrary to IPCC projections, however, no further rise has been recorded since the end of the 1990s, although CO? emissions have increased faster than ever. The IPCC and the German government conveniently omit the positive influence of CO? on plant growth and world nutrition. The more CO? there is in the air, the more plant growth will be. Using the slogan “Climate-Neutral Germany 2050”, to be brought about by “decarbonisation”, the German government is misrepresenting a situation of rising CO? emissions for a “Great Transformation” of German society, with the consequence of massive restrictions on personal and economic liberties. The planned compulsory reduction of CO? emissions by more than 85% would impact industrial locations and imply a reduced standard of living. In order to achieve this reduction, our hitherto guaranteed power supply will be compromised and become increasingly more expensive, while heat generation via fossil fuels is to be reduced to practically zero. Therefore, the AfD supports the “Protection of the Environment”, but negates the “German Climate Protection Policy” and plans for “decarbonisation” and the “Transformation of Society”. We want to end the perception of CO? as an exclusively harmful substance and set a stop to Germany’s maverick policy in the reduction of CO? emissions. We will place no financial burdens on CO? emissions. Climate protection organisations will no longer be sponsored. 12.2 Scrap the German Renewable Energy Act (EEG) Any successful energy policy must have three aims. Power supply must be guaranteed, affordable and environmentally compatible. This triad was always adhered to in the German power supply, but is abandoned by the German Renewable Energy Act (EEG). The EEG and the transition to renewable energy jeopardise power supply. They raise energy prices, due to technical factors, while wind turbines present eyesores in cultural landscapes and pose an often fatal risk to birds. Power generated via wind and sun fluctuates between zero and full capacity. The installed capacity by these volatile energy generators has to date already reached more than 80 Gigawatts and should thus be sufficient to comprehensively supply power to Germany as a whole, even with full capacity consumption. In reality, however, the average output of these renewable energy generators has hovered around a fraction of their rated output, on many days amounting to just single digit percentages. For this reason alone, renewable energy generators are no viable replacement for conventional large power stations. Further to this, they necessitate a massive expansion of the electric grid systems, which in turn will result in an immense additional investment. The growing number of volatile power generators also jeopardises grid stability. Correspondingly, the number of stabilising grid interventions to prevent large scale power blackouts has risen significantly. The EEG is akin to a state-directed economy and a departure from German social market economy. “Climate protection” serves as a justification for massive state subsidisation of generators that would not be economically viable otherwise. This is achieved via forced public consumption by priority power feed-in and a twenty-year guarantee on feed-in remuneration. The cost of these subsidies currently amounts to 27 billion Euro per annum, and is transferred to the consumer via the EEG apportionment on electricity costs. In the past ten years, the price of electric power has already doubled, and an end to this rise in prices is not on the horizon. The consequence is a gigantic redistribution of wealth from population and enterprises to a few subsidies receivers. Despite an ever-increasing number of renewable energy generators, CO? emission levels have remained constant since 2000, largely due to the abrupt abandoning of the nuclear energy supply. The erection of renewable energy generators converts large tracts of land, including forests, into industrial areas – with all the detrimental effects on nature and the human population. The same scenario applies to the expansion of the high-voltage grid. Thus, the installation of additional renewable energy generators is finding its limits. Already today, strong and expansive winds result in an oversupply of electrical power on cloudless days, which cannot be used. The opposite meteorological conditions lead to an inadequate electrical power supply that can only be compensated for via conventional power generation. Utilisation of excess power would only be possible with large expensive power storage units. However, these do not exist. Consequently, without large power storage facilities, the transition to renewable energy is impossible; with large power storage facilities, it becomes unaffordable. In the meantime, valid legal opinion considers the EEG unconstitutional and in violation of European legislation. In particular, it has been pointed out that the EEG levy is charged to the power client without a legal basis. The opinion is that the only legal funding instrument is taxation. Also, the EEG does not stipulate any obligation for the end-consumer to pay the EEG levy.The AfD thus advocates the complete abolishment of the EEG. It should not be a taboo to question the extent of existing subsidy obligations resulting from the EEG. The AfD will not give preference to either source of energy. We intend to terminate priority power feed-ins across-the-board. We reject quota and auction models that only serve the implementation of state-directed economic goals of current German energy policy. Grid costs borne by users should correspond to the level of consumption. We will abolish the energy tax thus provide immediate financial relief to power consumers. Our aim is to bring the German power supply system back to a standard of technology that guarantees a safe, affordable and environment-friendly power supply. The AfD wants the EEG, a government act rated as unconstitutional and in violation of European law, to be investigated by the German Federal Constitutional Court. 12.3 Protect Tenants and Owners: Abolish the German Energy Saving Regulations (EnEV) and the German Renewable Energy Heat Act (EEWärmeG) The combustion of natural gas, oil and coal generates about 80% of globally consumed primary energy and emits the CO? that is held responsible as the main factor in anthropogenic climate change. A substantial portion of this energy is utilised to heat and to cool buildings. If decarbonisation is supposed to reduce CO? emission by 85% until 2050, buildings will require suitable insulation in accordance with the “German Energy Saving Regulations” (EnEV). The required residual heat is to be generated as far as possible by renewable energy sources in accordance with the “Renewable Energy Heat Act” (EEWärmeG). As in the case of EEG and “Transition to Renewable Energy”, government and profiteers downplay or hide the financial commitments required to realise these measures. In this case, the calculated costs run into more than 3.000 billion Euro. Building owners and tenants are expected to bear these additional expenses. As substantiated by experts, the expected effects will only be achieved for a small number of revamped and newly-insulated buildings, which previously had a very poor thermal insulation. In addition, insulation works often cause extensive damage to buildings, mostly as a consequence of inadequate air circulation, but also by moisture penetration as well as algal and fungal growth on the outer walls. The facades of historic and listed buildings will be destroyed. Commonly used insulating materials manufactured from polystyrene (rigid foam) also increase the fire risk. A measurable reduction in energy consumption is, however, hardly achieved. Often the opposite is the case, as solar heat cannot warm up the building mass due to good insulation. Renewable energies have no long-term competitive edge over heat or cold generated from fossil and nuclear fuel sources either. Over the years, consistently invoked scenarios of shortages have quietly been laid to rest. High-tech heating and cooling systems – e.g. condensing boiler technology and combined heat and power generation – leave little room for renewable energies. This includes the utilisation of heat from the soil and air via heat pumps, and solar thermal energy. “Nanny state” governance that patronises owners of buildings and individual units as well as tenants, forcing them to implement insulation and measures to increase energy efficiency in buildings must be ceased. The Energy Saving Ordinance (EnEV) and Renewable Energy Heat Act (EEWärmeG) regulations lead to a rapid increase in building costs and serve as a convenient excuse for luxury renovations. As a consequence, rent for many units is out of reach for middle and lower income earners. This is another reason why the AfD advocates the abolishment without replacement of both the EnEV and the EEWärmeG regulations. 12.4 Bioenergy: End Subsidies and Priority Feed-In of Electric Power from Biogas Plants In 2014, renewable energy delivered approximately 11 % of the primary energy consumed in Germany. Approximately 7 %, or two-thirds thereof, was produced from biomass. 3.3 % of the biomass was used in heat production, 3.3 % in power production, and 0.8 % for the production of biofuels. The thermal energy from biomass is used for heating purposes as well as for processes in industry. The electric power generated from biomass is heavily subsidised through the EEG. The costs of electric power production from biogas plants are the highest, with up to 215 Euro per megawatt hour. The operation of such facilities often pollutes the environment in rural areas. Biofuels are produced in industrial plants and subsidised indirectly through a quota system. In 2014, the mandatory blending increased the price of diesel and petrol by about 0.4 cents per litre. Due to the low efficiency of photosynthesis of less than one percent, the usage of agricultural land for bio-energy is inappropriately large. Thus, bio-energy crops compete with food production. Instead, it is more reasonable to use biological waste for the production of bio-energy. By abolishing the EEG, the AfD wants to terminate subsidies and priority feed-in of electric power from biogas plants. The subsidisation of biofuels by a quota system has to be abolished. 12.5 Fracking: Explore Opportunities and Risks, Involve Citizens Hydraulic fracturing, commonly known as “fracking”, is a process to exploit underground energy sources. It involves risks, but also opens up new opportunities for energy supply. We are in favour of exploring this technology and the benefits and risks of fracking under the existing strict German environmental and mining laws. If the risks are manageable, we want to develop fracking and explore possible locations. Therefore, the AfD advocates withdrawing the restrictive „Fracking Law“, introduced in the German Federal Parliament in April 2015. The German people have to be informed objectively about the economic and political benefits of fracking in comparison to its real risks. The AfD rejects the commercial use of fracking for oil and gas production at new locations as long as energy supply in Germany is ensured otherwise. The final decision about the use of fracking at suitable locations has ultimately to be made by the affected local residents.12.6 Nuclear Energy: Explore Alternatives, Grant Lifetime Extensions in the Interim The hasty decisions to opt out of nuclear energy taken in 2002 and 2011 were economically damaging and not objec - tively justified. As long as the power supply at the place and at the time of demand is not secured, the AfD wants to allow a lifetime extension of still operating nuclear power plants on a transitional basis. The import of electric power from insecure foreign nuclear power plants is neither sensible for Germany as a business location, nor does it help to reduce the risks posed by nuclear power in general. Radioactive residues should be stored decentralised, acces - sible and catalogued in secure repositories where access is possible at any time in order to recycle them when technical progress permits. We regard a central permanent repository at a location which is hardly accessible in future as a wrong concept. We again want to allow research on nuclear energy, and reactor and power plant technologies. It is obvious that the necessary safety standards have to be observed. However, the use of nuclear energy is not an end in itself, and its future replacement is conceivable. Therefore, all other sources of energy should be vigorously explored.NATURE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY We believe that we have a responsibility towards future generations. We want to conserve an unspoilt and diverse environment. A healthy environment is the basis for human life and future generations. However, nature conservation should not be to the detriment of mankind. 84 Nature and Environmental Protection, Agriculture, Forestry Sea and land areas must be set aside where nature is allowed to evolve entirely on its own. These untouched areas secure the survival of many rare plant and animal species.13.1 Unspoilt Nature and a Healthy Environment The AfD is committed to the protection of the environment and the conservation of nature. It considers humans not as aliens and intruders, but values them as helpful agents in an integrated action plan. We are guided by the vision that a healthy environment and a diversity of species constitute the livelihood of mankind and future generations. Therefore, precautions have to be taken to protect resources such as soil, water, air, landscape, fauna and flora from exploitation. Priorities of the AfD’s environmental policy are, therefore, to minimise the consumption of uncultivated land, reduce soil and water pollution, and improve the quality of air. In addition, measures are to be taken to curb noise-pollution. Until proven harmless, the AfD opposes the use of the pesticide glycol-phosphate, which the WHO rates to probably be carcinogenic. 13.2 Stop the Uncontrolled Expansion of Wind Turbines We oppose any further proliferation of wind turbines in Germany. The damage outweighs the benefits. Wind turbines should be erected on an exception basis only in places where no harm will be caused to humans, wildlife, and the landscape. Local residents are to be consulted in a referendum on the future location of wind turbines.13.3 Animals are Sensitive Creatures The AfD is committed to a rigorous implementation of animal protection acts. Animals are not soulless objects, but fellow creatures. Exceptions for cruel or unnecessary animal experiments should not be permitted, even if conducted for scientific purposes. As sensitive creatures, animals have the right to correct animal housing and handling, be it in private households or animal husbandry. The legal regulations must be enforced for appropriate husbandry conditions for each species in industrial livestock farming, in zoos, in circuses (a ban on keeping large wild animals), in dolphin aquaria, and in households. The AfD demands that slaughter animals should be transported to the nearest abattoir only. Within Germany, the transport of slaughter animals should only be permissible over short distances. Farmers rearing livestock for food production are responsible that their products are free of antibiotic residues and multi-resistant (MRSA) germs. Because of the growing spread of MRSA germs, livestock treated with antibiotics must be kept to a minimum. To improve the health of the general public, meat producers should ensure that their products are free of antibiotic resistances before these raw products are passed on for food processing. Antibiotics for the treatment of humans should not be used for animals. 13.4 Halal and Kosher Slaughtering In Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and other European countries, kosher and halal slaughtering (slaughter without stunning) is forbidden. It is not compatible with animal protection as a national objective and thus has to be forbidden without any exception. Exceptions granted to certain religious denominations in paragraph 4a (2) of the German Animal Protection Act should be scrapped. The AfD also rejects kosher and halal slaughtering, even where short-time electro-stunning has taken place prior to slaughtering. By this method, animals are only stunned for the few seconds whilst the throat is cut, but the animal is sensitive whilst bleeding to death. 13.5 Genetic Engineering The fascinating world of genes appears to be an open book in the hands of scientists. Genetic engineering has the potential to prevent diseases and to forestall starvation. Today, genetic engineering has achieved international success in the field of medicine: Genome sequencing made it possible to develop pharmaceuticals and vaccines against the Ebola outbreak in West Africa in 2014 and to control the EHEC epidemic in 2011. Personalised, gene-based cancer therapies have been developed to treat certain cancers more target-orientated and therefore more effective and less invasive for cancer patients. The Federal Republic of Germany is an acknowledged high-technology and medical research location. The government has to make sure not to lose this international competitive edge in these important fields. Otherwise, German citizen would have no access to innovative forms of treatment. At the same time, the complex interaction of genetic makeup, metabolism and environment are still not adequately understood in order to safely calculate the potential risks that the application of genetic changes might have on humans, flora and fauna. In addition, there are still many other unknown risks of genetically modified organisms within intricate ecosystems. For these reasons, the AfD recognises the need for more genetic research and development. The application of genetic engineering in medicine and agriculture shall only be approved after thorough testing by notified bodies. Their work has to be controlled by a clear set of safety rules. Successful trials conducted under safe and controlled conditions should be made compulsory. The approval processes applied for in terms of the German Medicines Act (AMG), the German Medical Device Act (MPG), rules for good manufacturing practice (GMP), and the German Food and Feed Act (LFGB) may serve as a guideline to the final approval of genetically modified products. Genetically modified feed and food must be marked as such, also products derived from the same. Patent rights granted on genetically modified substances and seeds are accompanied by a growing concentration of trade in these products. This, inevitably, leads to an undesirable dependence on a few multi-national mega-corporations for our food supplies. The AfD is committed to minimising this dependence, and strives to preserve seed diversity and to ensure bio-diversity of our food supply. 13.6 More Competition, Less Subsidies, in Agriculture The AfD is committed to the principle that arable land is used for food production only and not for other purposes. Thus, we oppose any form of land speculation, such as land grabbing and the promotion of biomass crops for energy production, as practised by international corporations. The AfD is convinced that professionally run farms, rooted in their historic environments, are best suited to produce food which is both marketable and environmentally compatible. The goal is to produce, on a sustainable basis, high quality, healthy food that is free of chemical residues, and remains affordable. Furthermore, we demand detailed information on food, and transparency as to its origin. Current EU regulations, which only require limited information by food suppliers, mislead consumers. This can be achieved with different farming concepts. The AfD will strive to improve the general framework for a sustainable and productive agricultural sector with medium-sized farming units. EU subsidies are currently granted according to a scattergun approach, and their bureaucratic excesses will have to be abolished step by step. Farmers, once again, should be granted the freedom to make their own decisions. The farming profession needs to become attractive again. 13.7 Fishing, Forestry and Hunting in Harmony with Nature The fishing profession is a cultural asset. We support our fishermen in their efforts to eliminate competitive disadvantages, and also in their quest to participate in the process of negotiating fishing quotas. Fishing quotas linked to a specific trawler prevent succession of the business, and inhibit the recruitment of trainees. Therefore, this rule is to be abolished. Domestic fish products should be supported nationwide. Gillnet fishing in protected Baltic Sea regions should not be forbidden, and the extension of nature conservation areas should not be pursued. The AfD supports holistic forestry management with special consideration to the economic, ecological and social aspects associated therewith. The AfD also supports ethical hunting, and considers the hunter and his expert knowledge as an asset in nature conservation, which needs to be taken into account far more often. 13.8 Competition for Land not at the Expense of Agriculture and Forestry Construction projects and the development of infrastructure are often carried out at the expense of agriculturally productive areas. We consider arable land, meadows and forests to be of special value. Environmental compensatory measures should be reduced and should be organised in a way which is not detrimental to arable and forestry lands.INFRASTRUCTURE, HOUSING AND TRANSPORT Public infrastructure is often in a condition of advanced deterioration, which holds true for both public networks (roads, bridges, railway lines, power grids, and data networks) and public buildings (schools, universities, hospitals, cultural facilities, public offices, sports facilities, etc.). Public supply and disposal services such as the provision of electric power, water, gas, long-distance heating, sewage, road services, urban sanitation and the maintenance of parks and landscaped areas have fallen into a state of decay and haphazard planning. After many years of asset erosion and savings, a massive backlog of investment projects has accumulated. 14.1 Value Preservation instead of Modernisation and New Construction With regard to repairs and modernisation, we want to involve local authorities in planning activities which extend across all German federal states. Preservation has to have priority ahead of modernisation and new development. Decisions on new developments may only be made after conclusion of comprehensive requirement studies and unbiased expert and cost assessments. Preference must be given to decisions based on expert opinion, which politicians have to accept. Politicians should never interfere with the technical execution of projects, and are to be strictly prohibited from doing so. Politicians are to be involved in the pre-planning stages only, when requirements have to be assessed and the project scope is to be defined. Personnel deficits in public technical agencies must be rectified immediately. 14.2 Public-Private Partnerships: Transparency instead of Lobbyism With regard to public-private partnerships and public building projects, the national auditing offices are to be mandated by law to perform technical assessments and cost monitoring, including the three steps of project planning, planning supervision, and construction supervision. The creation of a tax-privileged nationwide investment fund or bond fund for the financing of infrastructure projects should be considered. This fund may be subscribed by insurance companies, private investors, and the public. The fund’s administration must be organised according to transparent and democratic principles. Public-private partnerships involve a residual risk and guarantee obligations for the public sector, thus, special safeguards and precautions are necessary during the decision-making process. Excessive consultancy fees, private arbitration proceedings, insufficient quality control and consultants‘ links with lobbying groups will not be tolerated. Public utility and service companies must be organised according to transparent and democratic principles. Services are to be provided to citizens strictly at cost prices. Operating surpluses, capital reserves or concession fees must never serve to consolidate budgets in the form of hidden taxes, but are to be used for repairs, modernisation and new investments. 14.3 Maintain Existing Infrastructure of Road and Rail Networks Repairs, maintenance of value, and the elimination of bottlenecks in road and rail networks should take priority ahead of spectacular large-scale projects. Large-scale transport projects should not be entrusted to private consortia. Instead, public authorities should invite tenders and execute these projects on their own. Specific large-scale projects, such as airports, which are not a routine job of an established road construction authority, should use the expertise of private companies as far as possible.A large-scale European-wide transportation plan for roads, rail networks, waterways and aviation is to be integrated with a continuously updated federal transport infrastructure plan. This plan must not serve the national interests of individual EU member states, German federal states or politicians. Cross-border transport, large and small scale goods traffic, as well as public, private and individual local and long-distance traffic, including pedestrian and cyclist traffic, are to be integrated with all plans from their inception. 14.4 Shift Cross-Border Goods Traffic to Rail and Water Transportation The AfD intends to disburden roads, as much as possible, from international mass transport of heavy goods and to transfer these onto rail and waterways. Rail networks and train stations must be made fit and modernised for fast long-distance passenger transport, for goods transport, for fast cargo handling, as well as for noise control. Road tolls for heavy trucks have to be charged according to weight and the degree of road damage caused by heavy axle loads. During the survey period, the toll system can be simplified by registering the effectively driven total kilometres and the vehicle class. 14.5 No Harassment, but Free Choice of Transportation Mode The AfD is firmly opposed to constraints on traffic policy, cost increases and neglected traffic routes as means of enforcing a transition to public local and long-distance transport. Drivers are restricted by more and more incomprehensible speed limits on German roads. Local authorities exploit these as a further source of income. Soon, a general speed limit is looming on all motorways. The AfD demands „free travelling for free citizens“, and rejects all restrictions for other reasons than road safety. We believe that there should not be any speed limits on motorways, 100 kilometres per hour on country roads, and 50 kilometres per hour on all thoroughfares in towns. An exceedingly high noise level has to be reduced by measures of noise abatement. The emission of fine particles by diesel engines has to be minimised by enhancements of engine and exhaust technology. Research, development and promotion of modern transport structures and systems as well as innovative route guidance and traffic management systems have to become a permanent task and a key issue of modern traffic policy. 14.6 A Perspective for Rural Areas Traditional methods for the advancement of rural areas are no longer sufficient to stop or even reverse the progressive decrease in settlement of the countryside. The relentless influx into growth centres is accompanied by a decreased demand for housing in the countryside. The rural population is shrinking at an increasing rate. Reasons are an ageing population, structural deficiencies and depletion, a decrease in birth rates and lack of jobs. This causes a further lack of attractiveness and weakens the rural areas. Current forecasts of population development indicate a steady decrease of Germany’s total population. This is accompanied by a growing depopulation of rural areas, mostly in central and eastern Germany. The AfD intends to strengthen rural areas. We want to maintain and/or re-establish the attractiveness of rural areas by active community life and an intact social cohesion. In Germany, attention should, once again, be paid to the development of rural areas. Living conditions are not similar, although the law stipulates this regional planning aim. In fact, the regional planning concept of “key areas” has promoted centralisation and accelerated urban development. The decay of these peripheral regions, however, will only be stopped with healthy structures in villages. The AfD believes that an intact agricultural sector, an economy based on small and medium-sized enterprises, and a sufficient infrastructure are part and parcel of a liveable rural environment. This includes all facilities necessary to serve the public, e.g. schools, medical care, and broadband internet services. Prospects for young families in rural areas and a reversal of the current negative demographic development can only be created by targeted investment and an intelligent resettlement policy. There can be no homogenous guiding principle for the diverse rural areas in Germany. Therefore, we want to allow different developments in order to support the specific local possibilities and capacities of different regions. Further, we want to review the regional planning concept of “key areas” prevalent in Germany. The principle of subsidiarity needs to be applied consistently in rural areas. We want to decentralise political tasks, responsibilities and decision-making powers, provided no supra-local regulation and coordination is needed. We wish to revive the right of the communities to self-administration and self-determination, which is guaranteed by the German Constitution. We intend to improve financial funding of rural municipalities in order to restore their ability to act on their own behalf. As long as the revitalisation actions described above are not yet working, the AfD suggests improving rural infrastructure by mobile services. Mobile suppliers for daily needs and for administrative services, mobile offers of qualification and culture, mobile health services, and mobile care for the elderly and young people are a few examples. Fast internet for everybody is desirable in any case. The AfD advocates that autochthonous minorities and ethnic groups residing in their historic regions of residence be placed under state protection.14.7 Housing Policy: Simplify Building Laws and Create Adequate Housing The migration of people from the rural areas to German cities and attractive economic regions raises the need for additional housing, the demand for property lots, and places a burden on the real estate market. Ancillary housing costs, which are rising disproportionately, accompanied by increasing housing prices in the centres, aggravate the market situation and reduce the offer of cheap housing in preferred areas. Restrictive building regulations, uneconomical insulation regulations, and bureaucratic development plans are further inflating real estate prices, building and housing costs. The disproportionate increase of property tax and real estate transfer tax also increases costs, constrains investment by constructors, and affects the housing costs of tenants and owners alike. Neither rent controls nor cap limits bring any relief to the housing market. Relief can only come from a large number of new building developments or a higher level of home ownership. In Germany, the proportion of private home ownership is much lower than the average in other European countries. Private housing has to become more affordable, especially for lower-income earners. We propose German Federal Building Acts which provide for a sufficient designation of building plots on the outskirts of urban conurbations. Such an allocation of competencies should enjoy preferential rights to the sovereign planning powers of adjacent rural communities. Residential property fosters attachment to the neighbourhood and the desire of residents to conserve and maintain their environment. Economically predictable and stable conditions for owners and tenants strengthen societal welfare in the long run, promote the cohesion of the generations and may also counter the rural exodus. Non-profit housing cooperatives and housing societies have to be strengthened. Relief may also come from property shares of modern housing cooperatives, which enable new homes to be built and existing housing to be modernised. Family-friendly homes in suburbs, on the outskirts of conurbations, and in rural areas can reduce pressure on urban centres and counter large-scale depopulation and impoverishment of the countryside. However, this requires an infrastructure that is completely modernised and efficient. 14.8 Urban Development: Create Higher Urban Densities, but Prevent Eyesores New urban developments have to be designed according to the latest findings of urban planning. Urban development and modernisation require that social, cultural, commercial, ecological and traffic-related aspects be combined and planned comprehensively from the start. The AfD is committed to the strict implementation of the guidance of the Federal Building Culture Foundation. published in their report of 2014/15, but rejects the transition to renewable energy and therefore also the recommendations connected with it. A higher urban density of residential areas should only be permitted until the pressure on the housing market has been relieved. Apart from this, the above suggestions also remain valid for regular urban development. A genuine reduction in real estate demand can only be achieved by increasing the density of more sparsely populated districts and by adding storeys, converting buildings, and closing empty sites. The development of new residential districts is only of secondary importance, unless a sufficient number of building sites is available. The reintroduction of former urban development regulations may also be useful for creating a higher urban density. However, these regulations must be optimised in terms of modern urban planning, in order to avoid typical post-war errors such as the construction of “gigantic concrete building blocks”.