13 PROPOSITIONS OF POST-MODERN ARCHITECTURE General Values 1. Multivalence is preferred to univalence, imagination to fancy 2. 'Complexity and contradiction' are preferred to over-simplicity and 'minimalism' 3. Complexity and chaos theories are considered more basic in explaining nature than linear dynamics; that is, 'more of nature' is nonlinear in behaviour than linear. 4. Memory and history are inevitable in DNA, language, style and the city and are positive catalysts for invention. Linguistic and Aesthetic 5. All architecture is invented and perceived through codes, hence the languages of architecture and symbolic architecture, hence the double-coding of architecture within the codes of both the professional and populace. 6. All codes are influenced by a semiotic community and various taste cultures, hence the need in a pluralist culture for a design based on Radical-Eclecticism. 7. Architecture is a public language, hence the need for a PostModern Classicism which is partly based on architectural universals and a changing technology. 8. Architecture necessitates ornament (or patterns) which should be symbolic and symphonic, hence the relevance of information theory. 9. Architecture necessitates metaphor and this should relate us to natural and cultural concerns, hence the explosion of zoomorphic imagery, face houses and scientific iconography instead of 'machine for living'. Urban, Political, Ecological 10. Architecture must form the city, hence Contextualism, Collage City, Neo-Rationalism, small-block planning, and mixed uses and ages of buildings 11. Architecture must crystallize social reality and in the global city today, the Heteropolis, that very much means the pluralism of ethnic groups; hence participatory design and adhocism. 12. Architecture must confront the ecological reality and that means sustainable development, Green architecture and cosmic symbolism. 13. We live in a surprising, creative, self-organizing universe which still gets locked into various solutions; hence the need for a cosmogenic architecture which celebrates criticism, process and humour.