SAVING ALL RACES - The Declaration of Independence of ATLANTIS!(version alpha11)I hereby declare the creation of the sovereign entity that tentatively shall be known as the Nation of Atlantis.We are a globally distributed meritocratic democracy. Membership is open to all species of mankind, in fact, all intelligent entities that share our two unifying key principals:* We believe that intelligent life has a right to determine its own future; which especially means that the only acceptable form of manipulation of that entity's will is by presenting argument consisting only of a full objective revelation of absolute truth honestly available. "We know better", "trust us", Etc., are all absolutely immoral.* We believe that every entity that is not an active enemy has the right to exist. This specifically means that every human race and species has the right to exist as distinct races and species. Speciation is how evolution works. Species have a right to exist. To deny them that right is genocide. Armenians, Japanese, Swedish, Kenyans, Etc., all are natural allies of each other in preserving their species against the genocidal globalist parasites.That is right: Jews who want to remain Jewish, Muhammad Ali who publicly stated he wanted his kids to be black (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVpfcq4pV5U) and agreed Caucasian’s should have the same right, Europeans who do not want their own nations (and people) to be destroyed, Japanese, Kenyans, Etc, everyone who wants their kids to look like themselves, all of us are inherent ALLIES! BY BLOOD! We are allies in preserving our blood lines! Our beautifully diverse human blood lines! Let us not destroy human diversity under the guise of celebrating it! It is not the African/Arabs/Etc’s who actively are attacking our blood line! It is the parasites who usurped control of our nations and opened our borders and fund wars in the others’ countries driving them here! I am hereby calling for all races to unite in a world wide revolution!If your bloodline is already mixed, then you are a hybrid. If there are many hybrids of similar ratio to you, then you are already a group that may wish to form collectives like essentially all other races naturally do. There is nothing necessarily wrong with an individual choosing to mix even; the problem is more the rate of mixing, and most especially the forced mixing (‘forced-integration’) which uses the coercive tactics such as mentioned near the end of this declaration. Forced integration is genocide. People are free to mix, as that is one way that good traits can be shared across races in evolution; too high a rate of mixing however destroys the separate species, thus destroying the genetic diversity that drives evolution's creativity. Likely, some mixed groups will get together and form their own mixed nations – some even where all mixes are welcome. Other mixes will want to diverge off into their own unique combination. The Amish have a right to diverge if they want; they play correctly, letting their children leave with the Rumspringa tradition of their culture. If two races want to mix, that is up to them. But if individuals from those races don’t want to hybridize, they want to see their species continue in their descendents, then it is their right to stay distinct, and to raise their children with an education and culture that strongly teaches them to do the same. That is how evolution and culture work. That is the right of cultures and races. It is their genome, their destiny, their decision. Your value is not to destroy my race. It is to have a good life. My value is not to prevent your good life. My value is to not have my race destroyed. We are not in conflict. Let us work together to make this world better for everyone.We are therefor a fractal nation of the Human genus.We are organized as sub nations who are all allied in one uniting purpose: to free the world from necessary evil.We recognize the current human situation is that of an occupied people. Humanities sovereignty has been usurped by tyrants who rule by subversive means. The parasites claim that humans are unfit to know and control their own destiny. Humans are lied to in order to manipulate them for what are the inherently selfish purposes of the parasites who usurped humanities self-determination. There is no democracy for humanity; for the topics debated are only false justifications for the parasite’s real hidden agendas.Thus, it is evident that it is the parasites that engineer the environment to make evil easier and more seemingly necessary. They engineer the wars, Etc.Thus, we are overthrowing the control of the parasites, and we are doing so by making the natural pattern of parasite impossible. This is by making the debate about truth instead of lies. In this environment the parasite will not be able to operate, as no one will willingly enslave themselves when asked to openly instead of by trickery.We shall aim to break no laws that our people are currently subject to! However, we shall seek every legal loophole; for this is a fight for survival, and loopholes are how their legal system are designed and employed against us anyway (see your tax adviser for details). We are a sovereign nation, and we have no duty to respect such utterances of tyrants we did not agree to follow; however, we believe the best path forward is that of moral goodness – for every reason – with one invaluable benefit being that then we may trade and deal with other nations, as any nation does. We will do no harm, and thus no adversary can openly oppose us on the world stage without revealing to the world that they are the evil ones. It will be as hard to attack us as it was for the British to attack Gandhi! This is part of the extreme beauty of such design!Every ENTITY that wants its sovereignty and its right to exist may join. For every such entity is an inherent ally of each other. We are allies against the parasitical entities that usurped mankind's freedom and are intentionally force integrating (hybridizing) the human races together in an orchestrated genocide of human diversity in order for their own parasitical species to rule the resulting remnant.I am starting this. I know what to do and see the end as inevitable. Join me, and together we will be humanity transcending the current stone age corrupt system of control. Humanity is destine to be free.Membership is open to everyone. It is a meritocratic democracy. We define this roughly as everyone's vote is equal to their total contribution to the nation. This contribution can be in the form of money (that is how tax works, voluntarily), but more powerfully in the form of anything you do that furthers the cause or is in alignment with decided direction of our nations. At the core of the system is the distributed consensus protocol which allows all of humanity to judge the individual contributions, thus self regulating the entire meritocracy. The consensus is fractal in nature. There is a global level, and then there are more local levels at every level people have more than one opinion. Decisions that only affect the local physical space are more the jurisdiction of those who are located there than anyone else. The system allows groups to solve conflicts with truthful debate instead of war and lies. There is not ever a global consensus, dictating. There is no dictatorship of the majority. The view is from your own trust model. People do what their client software calculates what they should do based upon the distributed consensus projected through the viewers web of trust. The full explanation of the enabling technology that makes obsolete the current ruling system of the world is probably beyond scope of this document, so I will leave it at this here. We are building a permanent world wide encyclopedia powered by the consensus protocol. This replaces centralized corrupted wikipedia, and is how we will distributively collaborate on what our constitution shall be. I have no say in anything more than any other member, only what trust I earn in the system. If I am false, you recall me instantly in real time, or form your own faction. Even divided we are united in our common purpose of building up the new system to enable our coexistence without war despite any such disagreements. I want nothing out of this for myself other than to live in a world without necessary evil, and to know that all humanity will be safe from the risk of enslavement by parasites for the rest of eternity. I will lead you all as far as you need me. However, I do not seek to be a dictator. The system we are building does not allow for it. I am simply the campaign manager – for the unified human consciousness that is all of us. Join me, let us together revolutionize the world!Ultimately we are building a technology to enable humanity to reach consensus in an up to real time distributed manner using incorruptible digital communications (eventually quantum cryptography). This will allow all people and all races to come to consensus with all available truth presented to every single last individual in all honesty and power of all humanity combined. With this technology we will come to consensus with how to share the earth as we also use it to build out to the stars. The universe is likely infinite – with the trend of technology finding ever more inhabitable regions – thus it won’t be hard to for us all to share it.How will this all take place? Read the book Atlas Shrugged. You have been lied to. Her philosophy is not pro-unlimited-greed. She makes a clear distinction between good-greed (inventor of better technology who did it to for their own enjoyment that can’t help but have benefits to society) and the looters (Enrons, Microsoft, Politicians, crony-capitalism with back room deals making regulations to stifle competition, Etc.). Atlas shrugged is not just the culmination of the author’s philosophy. It is a proposal for how to successfully have a non violent revolution in our current system (of rule by lies and exploitation, Etc). Her proposal is absolutely the way to go. We are building Atlantis. We are liberating from the rest of the world every producer, hard worker, and all those who are not looters and moochers. As the rest of the world collapses under its own corruption, we will roll on out over top of them. Realize that the book is the author's plea for someone to come along and implement what she realized is the best way. She only needed someone to invent the technology to make possible Atlantis. In her book it was a new engine and a cloud projector (cloaking device) which hid the physical location of Atlantis. The only difference from her book, is that in the real world, Atlantis is instead physically distributed, and thus it is hosted in the cloud, and yet the cloud is us, for it is 100% P2P. The technology is the software we build (https://morph.is) and eventually the physical global mesh network Atlantis rolls out over the planet to take away the ability of other entities to kill-switch humanities new unified consciousness.There is also a 3 part movie of Atlas Shrugged. While it did not have the funding of the LOTRs, it appears to have honestly tried to convey the main idea, although it leaves out some important logic in my opinion. If you aren’t going to read the book, then at least watch the movie. It is indeed how the world wide revolution is already happening.I will finish with what I believe to be the best formulated argument against the ongoing genocide which is being done to my species. It is also being done to others’. It is a truth that is being repressed, and the real struggle is to articulate the truth in a form that is not defeated by the brainwashing of primed trigger words and topics. Please spread this, so that our people have a better argument than what is being used. Please spread the idea, that we must unite all races against those who wish to erase race (other than their own). Here is what I have come up with so far:HOW DO YOU GENOCIDE A SPECIES? Simple! First, brainwash the population to stop breeding! Tell it that the world is over-populated, children are work instead of joy, Etc. Attack the population's prezygotic isolation by removing the geneflow barriers that are the discriminating immigration laws of their own countries. Make sure to call the species' desire to exist racist! Brainwash the population to hybridize with the foreign genetics you flood into their lands. Subsidize the invasion by providing it with welfare, affirmative action, backing of the law, media promotion, Etc. Fund it by taxing the victim population, reducing their fertility with economics. Make sure to use your ownership of the media and education systems to call any individuals resisting hybridization racist nazi hatemongers! Make sure to suppress all news of the rape and pillage so as to keep the victim species as oblivious and unable to resist their genocide as possible!Armenians, Congolese, Falun Gong, Japanese, Jews, Kurds, Palestinians, Tibetians, Ukranians, Yazidis, every prezygotically isolated species, even hybrids; every entity that believes in its right to exist, and respects that of others; we are all ALLIES against the genocidal globalist parasites! There are infinite planets for us to share; let us fight the parasites, and then colonize outwards instead of each other!Everything here is open to the Atlantis Democratic Process. I am starting the revolution; but it is for everyone. Help me to shape it into what we all want and what will get humanity to the STARS!